# Brainstorm for Oliver's memoir

This is really now the heart and soul of this paoer, and makign ti real and believeable and contextual to what i want ti to be will be very important. So Oliver was raised in the academic institution. Maybe Harvard is a little too on the nose, and it can be some university that's respected but less visible. And Oliver is the son of this famous philosopher and academic, a champion of the left, at least in the old-school sense. But as the decade is winding on and oliver is growing up, and his famous daddy who's actually gone so much of the time going on lecturing tours, writing books. 

I want Oliver to be stringently aware of the historical forces shaping his life, his legacy. Son of an irish immigrant, a member of the baby-boomers that found a place in radical academia, probably considered himself counter-cultural, but inevitably became entrenched in the pweor structure and everything else that defined baby boomers. So he's got this kind of rock star personality, larger than life, lots of adoration, and he's probably used to havin ghis way with women,  and there's also probably a world where he's continued to lust after young college students even though he's kept getting older, and has had trouble accepting he's nto attractive the way he used to be. And he grew up in the 60's an 70's and everythign was free love, and he was miles away from the AIDS epidemic and considers himself a feminist, but doesn't get all the new censensuality. He's probably a guy who in general, just doesn't understand the millenial power dynamics, the new concerns with identity, and as someone who has typically considered himself a socialist and a leftist his whole life, and someone who believes you'll only really be effective if you're willing to infiltrate and lay the game. But increasingly, he feels as if him and his work is being critiqued and considered outdated. 

It's a sad story of someone in his own day who thoguht he was on the right side of history, and never ofund his way into graceful ageing. Even though he's closer to 70, at this point he still thinks of himself as a "cutting edge" kind of guy. And he sees himself begin attacked, and seeing all these political lines redrawn, and he's ended up becoming a critic of the contemporary left, and believes they're the ones who have become fascists, and at the same time also the ones brainwashed by elites, and he's found his way into a spot of social disgrace, and a me too moment halfway through Oliver's graduate studies, and the final blow has to be when he's fired. The thing is that this story can't be vague, we've got to be real specific about the sequence of events and the details because this is a story that can hit really close to home if I can nail it. It's going to take alot of work, but why not? 

There's got to be a whole trajectory to Oliver, his father, their family home life, what Oliver is going through in school, and how it ties in to the struggles of the world. Oliver's peers, some of whom have his dad in class, look up to him, but also start to realize his dad is out-dated, racist, sexist, homophobic, xeno-phobic. And all of htis is happening around Oliver, and he's genuinely loyal to his dad for a while, he's even takign some of the heat, too. I think for Oliver it's this experience of the walls closing in, where no one is on his dad's side, not even their family. THey're all talking about his obvious flaws which Oliver refuses to see, and then he starts to meet the people that support his dad, and it's bad news bears, they're right-wing reactionaries that just say whatever they want to make money off reactionaries. 

Oliver is defending his dad, because in so many ways he sees the world through his dad's eyes as he's been trained to. He goes to school, there's no doubt in his mind that he's going to be a schoalr and academic and cultural commentator the way his father was, and so he's studying in his father's footsteps, a scholar and critic the way his father has always groomed him to be. But there are good people in his corner. There are friends who show Oliver where people are coming from with their perspectives.



And this is something to imagine for myself. It's not that the left is above criticism, of course not. Oliver's dad is probably onthe badnwagon of thinking that: There is a very clear set of tihnking in conservatism that frames a critique of the leftist movement. A bunch of snowflakes, spoiled and privileged children who can't accept reality. And JOhn is probably writing books and articles basically tearing into the millennial and gen Z children, in ways where he denies their own agency by reducing them to the sum of historical forces, and basically condemns them and predicts humanity's downfall due to their lack of rootedness. and that's how he's trying to salvage his career is by being a hater, because he thinks these kids have ruined his career, and it's this whole terrible war between generations, with Oliver caught in the middle, studying the great studies of the humanities, the philosophers and psychologists and sociologists and so on. And of course, his father's interpretation of these things, him as this "Great Synthesizer" Who was so knowledgable across so many fronts that he coudl conduct these analyses that cross so many disciplines. Does John have any kind of grand lens he applies to his work? No he seems like someone who's jsut an exceptional analyst, but still, what in his life formed him to be what he is? He's someone who was hip and cool and won lots of recognition and respect, a cultural philosopher, someone who could reasonably win the affection of female students at an earlier period of time.  A rockstar. Someone who got to be a professor in his mid 20 and participated in all the protest of the 60's and 70's, but also partied a lot at the same time, and he's been commenting on revolutions for a long time, analyzing them,  probably not directly ever participating in them, though. There's probably an arguemtn to be made that he made a living and career for himself commenting on people's suffering but never putting his own life on the line, that might be the critique. He used ot be celebrated for drawing attention to people's struggles around the world, analyzing and critiquing. His analyses probably got used counter productively, the way therapists of mobsters jsut made mobsters better at their jobs. 

Let's say Oliver is 30, his father is 60, so he was like a late baby boomer, and Oliver is doing his Phd dissertation. He's definitely a child of privilege, he's gotten to travel the world, live a cozy and insulated life,  so he probably took some gap years, even went around to get a few different degrees, two masters, and is suppsoed to be doing his PhD work. This is one angle to take, where he's already been int he trajectory, admittedly this will be a harder sell because I don't have that much education so it'd be a hard sell/bluff. But if the kid is writing a master's thesis, and he's younger, it's probably easier to sell my point of view. He probably imagined he'd be going from degree to degree, getting two masters, then a PhD, and just living in the academic system, safely couched. But he must've done a specialized Gallatin school of indivindualized study, so that he basically just studied a hodgepodge of humanities, and he was in school at a time of great social and cultural change, and he's going to school at a place where is father is this big deal. But placing him a little younger does enable me to address this a little more simply. And the real thign would be a whole book. This has to be more like an open letter written by an academic than a true academic paper. It would be interesting to put the work in for it to be a fake academic paper, but that also might be self-indulgent, and not really be the point. The point is really just this kid's experience being the son of famous academic who's now disgraced and feeling called to speak up and say something the only way he knows how. It'll be a confusing hodgepodge. I'm imagining being in this kid's head, and he's totally overwhelmed and confused by his position, how to deal with his father's disgrace, his and his generations' future, what we are to do about the whole situation.

Oliver has to the oldest, the one who's gotten to know JOhn the longest, the one JOhn absolutely favors and everyone knows it, "so like your father!" and all that kind o stuff. And he's in this place he found this myth, translated and reinterpreted it, and it inspired him to leave his academic life and just go immerse himself in the world.

I should think about the fact there's clearly something in my head that feels like I need to address the world with some messianic saying.  

Anyway, thinking it through again, this story is oging to operate best when it's this kid's account of his life, the dynamic of growing up the son of a prominent academic, a fake one who in the world of the story, is already well-known. Which means my narrative excuse has to be something like Oliver revealing some privileged perspective on the main character. So the story has to start with the circumstance:

1\) This was supposed to be my master's thesis, but now it's an open letter, because people have been asking me to take a stance against my dad. This is going to be read by all of his peers, his father's peers. unless this is written after the fallout of him leaving the college. and then its like this awaited response thats also reflective of what his thesis ended up being. i dont wan to spend too much time explaining why or how the story is and just tell the story

