---
description: Place for Journaling related to Summer projects.
---

# Summer Projects '21 Brainstorm

--Here I will develop a plan/Itinerary for which stories to work on, when, and keep note of each of their progress.

Stories 1st drafted:  KFC, Taru, Party, MAU, Cave, Space

Stories TBD: Maya, Evil Empire.

--Process: Draft all stories, then move to revision phase.

Goals: Get all stories into workshop.  Have drafts ready for peer review, on a rolling basis.

Some kind of schedule/timeline on which to get each story to nearest possible state of completion, in the course of the summer. With each story at its respective checkpoint, send it out for peer review. 

So what do I want to do next? I'll continue to learn how to use this format as I get used to it. I am redrafting Evil Empire, both of whic are stories I've written before that I'm interested in re-doing, just having the stories in my head. If it's easy for me to jump in with and egange and asee hwere it goes.

5/30/21

We've got a full three months, the whole summer, before classes start. I want to be able to walk into the school year with all these stories thoroughly revised, maybe already workshopped a bit, and arguably "done" and that right now feels very attainable. There's drafts of everything except Maya Saves New York. While I've technically done that one before, I'm completely reapproaching it. FOr this story, I want to transparently be myself as the narrator, and just tell the story. I think the fun hopefully will telling parts of the story concisely and more bird's eye view, and them zooming in on certain moments. I really don't even know what kind fo shape it's going to take ultimatley. Somethign very strongly in my own voice, with the license to do inventive thigns with narrative,  and I think I will keep time stamps throuhgout the day. Something Joyceian about the whole thing without trying to impersonate anyone's ways of speaking, cringe. Just speak as myself and tell the story. It'll be a very interesting experiment to jump into, i'm not sure at which point. 

ONce Maya has a pass, it's just about picking the next one to do a round of revisions on. I think I want to do Taru and the Mask, because I feel like I still need to make a first draft on the version I have in mind. 

6/8/21

So, I've decided I want to put Maya on the backburner for now, or maybe just take my time with it and be slower. I want to start getting into major revisions with some of the other stories. Perhaps starting with the ones that are closest to being done, which would probably be The Cave first, and that's what I should try and submit to Tom by Saturday or Sunday? Then I'd probably look at Taru, then KFC, then Imagi, then Space, Then party. Party is the furthest away I think. I trust a lot of the initial drafts of the other stories, they just need more structure, refinement, and a sense of "pop" as each thing demands. Taru & the Mask is something I will have to rebuild a little more, but I have a really strong Idea of what's going on. Nation of Imagi too is pretty much fine with me in essence, it's more about refinement, taking more time with the end which I rushed through a bit. Enjoy making this world I'm setting up deep and rich. But, it's basically what I want it to be in vision. Space between notes, the idea is there, but the execution is sloppy. That will take a bit more work. KFC I also think is there in vision, but again I think the ending is rushed and I do this thing where I just want to say the thing. But still, pretty close. Cave is also pretty close, it's the middle exposition-y part that's rushed, but this can be good for workshopping super soon. Then party is far off the mark and needs a lot of planning. It's the one that probably has the biggest idea. It's what I'd set up as the last one in this collection. So, goal for this weekend is to polish up The Cave and send it to Tom so that it we could put it in the pile for submission. 



6/22/21 I've made tremendous progress  on a lot of these stories, and I'm very proud of myself. In terms of what I have here, my immediate focus is Taru & The Mask. I think I might want to shift to some other stories after that might be a little easier. I also need to more regularly revisit drafts and see how I feel about them and if I have any other ideas. After Taru, I think I might want to do Chimera, or Singularity, or Improvising, because that one's really already in a written form and just needs to be fleshed out, allowed room to breathe. It's a fun fantasy story though, worth holding on to. The deadline I gave myself was beginning of august I'd submit a bunch of stories to friends and peers for feedback. But sending a bunch of stories means that it's going to take longer for everyone to get through it. So maybe I should go ahead and send what I have to give people time to look through it, and then keep working on stories, because I could shoot myself in the foot by dumping it on people all at once and then no one can respond. 

6/25/21 I've been hazing a rough time getting the ball rolling because of life things, but ultimately progress is good. Vic gave good notes on The Cave that can improve it. I haven't drafted Taru yet, and that feels like the biggest thing I want to accomplish. It is going to be a kind of story the represents a new lvel of thoroughness and rigor, And I think it'll be totally worth it, but it will be challenging. I'm also interested in  going back to another batch of sci fi and fantasy story, since those seem to have been getting traction. That'd be Chimera, Borders, Improvising, and these are partially more tempting because they feel like they'd be simpler. There's also singularity, an old story, but one of which I think there's still an essential nugget. Now that I'm reconciled to this being a story about grief. Because I think a central thing I want to achieve in this story is this scientific thesis \(it'll honestly be a littl ebit of wonky pseudo-science\) But I want to articulte my vision of what singularity can mean in a few different ways.

Recent events have made me consider in writing a few things: 1\) Authenticity, sincerity, vulnerability, can be felt by a reader. Writing and creating from such a place will alway shave more of an impact. I want to watch out for the fascination of ideas, the glitz and glamour of construciton, and keep in mind that what will make my stories slap the most is when I know the emotional core. I still haven't written something that is about my sense of grace-- I think rather i'd keep tha tin mind, in the background of all my stories. That heartbreaking tenderness, the suffering that comes form caring about something, but you wouldn't have any other way. I want to make sure that tenderness and heartbreak is in every story, a way of seeing that makes us ache with love.

BUt, for singularity, i've got a story idea for Singularity, Ted CHaing esque, some soft-science, and that's a helpful model, but ultimatley it's just me articulating and exploring this idea of death as a singular event, one everyone arrives to at once, and this idea as a way to deal with grief over the loss of loved ones. ANd perhaps its worth considering other ways we might address grief an dying, but I suppose that's what other things are for. I know what I have in my head as this experience of death as a convergence of all things and then an infinte expansion that obliterates all distinctions. But we'll see. At some point I'll just dive in to a draft attempt. BUt maybe I can sit here and keep thinkign it through and give it mroe depth. 



6/28/21 -- Self check-in about where I'm at. Ultimately good place. Got pretty awesome and positive feedback on Alien Utopia, people were thoroughly entertained and had no toruble gettign through it and enjoying themselves. FOr the most part. There were people who I think didn't enjoy it's non-seriousness, or the style and tone, and some notes were helpful. I'll make an adjusted version and see what's up. I can see how there's an MFA perspective that gets harped on, a certain somber seriousness, and I like that I am presenting something fun. That being said, it seems hard to find an audience or publication that doesn't favor serious pieces about identity, because that it absolutely the culture right now, one I don't malign at all, it's just not something I can really speak to. It was interesting to hear these other writers talk about how much mental illness was the cushio of their work, and that's not somethign i relate to. Not that I need to relate and understand everything, but there are just some thigns that are not my place to speak to. Being specific, honing in on what my mind sees, is exactly what I should be doing. I think I need to embrace letting even short stories take more time, let them be really good. Because once they're done, it's like a forever thing, usually anyway. One thing at a time. I like the new singularity idea. I need to flesh that out, but it'll probably be a little more intimate and grounded than the original which was a little all-over the palce and grandiose in a way that was shallow. This new angle will be about specific people who we resonate with and imagining very interesting outcomes for them. I feel like I had some new thoughts about The Party too? I think as well, I wanted to take more time, be less fantastical, more grounded. I think it can still have a magical effect to it, especially as it reaches absurd heights, but I need to take more time to savor the intimate parts of parties, the ones people can actually relate to. The games, the intimate conversations, all the different kind of moments. It just means taking more time to figure all that out, think about all the different kind fo moments, how to sequence them, how to make it make sense for the main character, how to make sure he has agency in the situation, as someone who's the antithesis fo a party goer and somehow transforms into something else. Probably still not a party animal by the end, even if they've had the full experience over the course of the night. It's the kidn of party where you spend the whole night awake, and don't leave until people are already going about their day. I definitely want it to find its way into the spirit world where we understand ourselves to be part of an eternal celebration. It's basically a rip-off of Steppenwolf, but a little more tongue and cheek and less serious than hesse. & based on Vic's notes, and a few more notes  I need to get on the other stories there'll obviously be a revision. And The Cave needs to be expanded to include Sophie's decision to move in to one of these centers, the world unfolding, what do the parents do, in their loveless situation? and especially if their daughter is almost entirely out of their lives. I could see Hori making a deal with her, and wanting to take her to do all these nice thigns and entice her, but ultimately she's still oging to choose that. ANd of course it's not permanent at first. But there's also got tot be the possibility of the whole virtual space of people workign together. There's the choice of private universes or collective universes, and that's honestly probably something that opens this up into a whole big kit and kaboodle. But I need to at least get a short story out of it. I think there are good concepts here, and the seeds of some character arcs, and that's probably it, I just need to cement the character arcs more. I wonder what the KFC notes will be. I understand if people find it to be grotesque and unnecessarily disgusting. That is definitely part of my interest in this story, but perhaps there's a way to frame it better. I absolutely want this to be a story that indulges in disgust and things that offend people, for the point of questioning how we deal with acknowledging our connection to things we really hate and despise and want no part of. All the things we hate are a part of us. Soo this story feels important to me, but perhaps there's a different form of execution. 

Maya? Yeah, Maya should probably be the fall project. Once I get full first drafts on all my story prompts,  which includes Chimera, improvising, black saint and sinner lady. Those are the ones I want to include in this round of stories. After I have first passes of all that, I will move to do a first draft of Maya as a novella. Afterr we get a first draft of maya as a novella, then we pivot back to editing and submitting all these stories. And basically don't rest until all of them find a home published somewhere, because they're all fucking damn good. I can write great speculative fiction, science ficiton and fantasy, and I can write literary fiction. 



6/30/21 FIgured it out! It's definitely hard to get shit in gear when I'm working in the store, but that's no one's fault but my own. I can still find the focus. And what am I trying to focus on? Writing, but in lieu of that, more of the groundwork of a battle plan in terms of my career. There's the website to build and re-make, something that fits my style and aesthetic, once such a thing is established. Truly, the bottom line is getting work read and submitted. I should find a least a few suitable publications for each of the stories I'm working on. I could use some time of quiet and relax to just get away and spend time with the stories. Chimera, Singularity, Taru, The Party, Channel 12, THe only Rule for Improvising, Borders.

There's really so many story ideas I haven't even begun to articulate yet. I've tried at various times, but they'll all be born on their own time. There's so much in this world I'm trying to reckon and reconcile with. I feel like I almost was flirting with a new story idea today during morning pages, it was so philosophical, and obviously concerning itself with the fact that I sometimes imagine there's some kind of definite choice I could make, where I abandond eerything and devote my whole self towards some plan to save the world, where we somehow crush these mega corporations, pull of this massive scheme that radically redistributes wealth. All at once, imagine all the evil overlords dead, their heirs on the side of the masses. Conversations happening in the streets, tota clarity about how to restructure everything. It'd be worth spending some time thinking about it.

I really do know enough about the Taru story I think to just take a pass at it in one day. It's just an open letter, of this kid who was supposed to finish his master's in the some wish-washy individualized study of humanities, but then his father got caught up in a scandal that got him canceled, and for some reason, people are inadvertently putting him on trial to see where he stands. Because his father, thought he once has a sterling legacy as a leading american intellectual leftist, has now become an icon of current conservative culture, or certianly most of his support is coming from the conservative culture in America. His dad has been more and more critical of the left, and as if in retaliation, a bunch of accusatiosn start comign to gether at once. And there's lots of corroborating evidence, but of course his father is insisting its a fabrication and all these takedowns are part of a master plan. He's an old guy, his legacy is being destroyed, and he's becoming increasingly embittered, paranoid, into king lear territory where he's losing his mind over the way he think he's beign treated by his former students. And it's coming down to this point where Oliver's father is depending on him more than ever before. And he's beign asked what he's studying, and really what he's studying is what the fuck is going on with this generational war. And he's been struglging to make sense of it and put it all together. And this isn't an academic essay. It's a character's testimony about his life, maybe with reference to the thinkers and idols in the humanitites, all the people he looked up to and modeled after, and then there's this myth. And, is the myth real? No, it's not, he made it up to express this feeling. I should avoid treating this as an academic paper as much as possible. If people wanted to read an academic paper, they'd read an academic paper. I can write a story that's far more entertaining, but just as rich in thought and theory, but it's personal rather than trenched in academia. So he's writing this open letter, posting it on his social media, and on the college campus. He has no idea how people will react to it, whether it will make them reconsider his father, and perhaps peopel will consider a way to call in rather than call out, redeem rather than cancel, or whether this  will also be the end of his life that leaves him with nowhere to turn except the same dark and radical community that takes in all the rejects of the tower of moral purity. 

Yeah, just two full days off and I can get a decent draft of this story that satisfies me. Similar to the first one, but with more detail and attention given to Oliver's story, Oliver's memoir really being the centerpiece to the whole thing. 

After  that? I think I want to try singularity. It's actually a pretty sweet idea couched in a massive philosophical  and scientific possibility. Death as an actual physical event which represents the the big crunch of all consciousness. Physics woudl not agree with this. THe challenge remains how to make sense of this concept, all  death occurring at the same time. I'll make it work. A scientist and her grief, and the perspecitve of her loved ones, those who left "before her" See, that's the interesting conundrum, how someone who in your own life died many years before you, and you see the life leave their eyes, and you think they're in a place, and they'll have been there for some time that's dilated compared to this world, but to imagine that it all happens at once. that will be the fun. And the journal of the scientist coming upon the astronomical observations, finding out whatever they need to. It's a good excuse to find scientific information on the latest theories about  large scale structures of the universe. It's fun to learn for any of these projects. Singularity, then Chimera, and that give me quite a bag of speculative fiction sci fi. THrow in  one or two fantasy stories, a horror story, trying to do all the genre stuff in a way that's hopefully above the common chaff of genre stuff. 

I wonder also about what new story ides I might get. THere are obviously still many thigns I want to express and ideate that I haven't figured out the proper form of yet, then there's also just workign mroe from improvisation. But BEfore I move into that realm I'd go back into revision and workshopping the other stories. And then, at some point, I'd got to move into drafting  Maya Saves New York, just giving a full pass on it, to come back to and revise later. Oh yeah, and the party. All short stories drafted, some revised, then Maya drafted, then the others revised, maybe some new ideas in there, then Maya revised again. It feels good to imagine all these stories being published a year from now. I think that's a reasonable and attainable goal. I think once I have some thing published, I should query and agent, and look to shop Maya around, or a collection of my stories and the novella, or even just start working on one of the novel ideas. 

Black Saint & SInner Lady, that I'm also excited about. It might be a novella. I don't quite know, btu it's something I feel like I need to feel out, all the way to its end, it just means somethign to me. I'll let the story dictate what it should become. It's gonna be about this man, who's looked at someone who's not a full person, even though he is a very full person, an overflowing person.

The "Lit Fic" Stories: MAU, KFC, Black Saint, The Party, Taru, Space. That's six stories I'd consider ilterar y and thus look for submission and acceptance at literary magazines. Maya eventually, too, once it's done. BUt maybe a that point I should be more serious about finding an agent. and then there's all the speculative and genre stories, which I can submit to all the reputable magazines for the genre, maybe even get myself considered for a Hugo award. I just know all these stories are good, and I'm going to keep writing them and submitting them and working my ass off. What do I hope to have by the end of 2 years at columbia? I hope to have all these stories published, I hope to have a novella published, or perhaps even a deal on a book. I'd hope to be near done, if not in the process of shopping my first novel, The Pilgrim. Already in the works of Riley's Thread, Illusion, and The Original, and Sisyphus in Space. I'm glad I have so much to get through and create, years and years of stuff, before I ever need to have a new idea, and the beauty is the ideas will just build-up and come and it'll be great! If I publish everything I"ve already started to conceive in my head, that'll be a pretty prestigious career! And these things are the guiding orientation. Everything else in life will come as it will. I know I'll be fulfilled if I get to make writing into a way of life, a "what I do" when people ask. HOw it happens, everything else along the way, are joyful extras. 

That's it. By the end of summer, have drafts of everything. NOt including Maya. But in the next two months, that's Taru, Singularity, Party, Chimera, maybe that's enough? I could do more. WHat would I add? I could add BLack Saint  & Maya, and in that order? I have a full pass on Taru this weekend, then singularity we take a week for the brainstorming structuring and then trying, same with Chimera, and Party, that brings me to the end of July, then August we split between Black Saint & Maya. & Maya work would probably carry over in to the semester, but that's fine. And all of that published in a year from now, or a little more. Seizing up all the fellowship grants and scholarship opportunities. I can see all of these making a certian kind of splash. I can see Chimera being turned into a black mirror episode, or Love, Death, & Robots, or any other kind of anthology show they're working on. THe Party is actually the one that's going to be the hardest sale, I think. It will probably be considered very pretentious. But, There's something there I want to communicate, something I want to show, something that, yes, technically it's what Steppenwolf is already about, it's my own take on it, a little more nuanced, updated for the 20th century. V for Vendetta Pt II, that would be fun, but also a lot to chew on. But I like writing stories that are relevant to things going on in the world, hitting close to home and talking about things that matter, because I think that's part of what people are really hungry for, is new ways to think about these new problems, whether its how exactly things might fall apart or come together, how we're dealing with new thigns emerging every day, how we're entertaining ourselves, how we're teaching ourselves.

That's maybe something I want to tap into more, and perhaps why Maya is important. That's my ultimate story on the matter of the current moment, facing down the barrel of the future. I'm wondering whether I want to go ahead and imagine it at the end of the decade with thigns a little further along in certian ways. I think probably not because I don't want to play the game of guessing what kind of version of the city we're in, what kind of world and how the world will end up being different from it. THe alternative is I go for it, and have fun imagining what thigns might be different. And going in a apocalyptic direction, I'm obviously imagining a lot of the worst possible scenarios beign played out. Because more than about trying to accurately predict, the story should be serving to play out people's fears, in order to face them and deal with them. And I believe I can do this as a long short story or a novella. It's just about picking out the right scenes fomr Maya & Maria's life. Yeah see when I think about it, I already have so much of the story in my head in a way that works well, so i think I should more likely stick with it as 2021, and obviously the real results will be differnt, but we should hopefully understand this is meant to be a version of the world where we get to play out our anxieties. I could also do it for 2025, which is close enough that it cnat be that different and culture will have things happen, but not so close. So maybe 2025. At the same time, I really crafted the story aroun kids of a certain age making things happen, and Maria of a certain age. The presence of history is a big thing in this story. I had a whole huge mythology here, and really I should let it be as long as it needs to be. I wrote a lot, but it's not all necessary. As long as I know what's important to move things along, and deliver us to an ending, an ending where a people, a world, is going through the collective trauma of an immanent loss, the feeling that our children will not have a future. How to give hope that's not false. How to reveal grace that is real and true. THe grace of people loving each other.

As long as people love each other, then we're not lost. People need to cry. THe point of this story is to get people to the end, after all the trials, all the sufferings that everyone goes through, the hopes in their hearts, and the way life crushes those hopes, and we are cruel to each other. We see what incredible things people will do for each other then the time calls upon them, when a dying friend has a last request. It'll get there. THe first step is writing it, then showing it to people. There's also still a possible story attempt to make a parody out of occult studies, and the occult in general, the way in which it functions like a pyramid scheme. IT just takes advantage of people's desires, period, and this would be a story of seeing the whole practice of magic, and all the other things that practice power as something like that. That's one idea, then there's still an eyes wide shut parody to happen.  But this involves some big questions I have to be ready to look into, in terms of what that is and howit works. My currnet version of the story is wierd, when the christian guy goes to take out the satanist cabal and he turns out to be satan himself. wierd, dont think it landed. Still not really sure what to do about it. There's also my hollywood story, and I have some idea in my own head, a very romantic idea-- and that's another hting I need to be careful about. People are probably mroe prone to believe bullshit than ever, and people really need to be drawn to dispelling and voices that create truth and clarity, not things that distort, misrepresent, or romanticize. That's a very important thing to keep in mind with fiction these days, what a duty we have to tell the truth, to be truthful when we make things up. 

Alright, again, in lieu of diving in to writing, i'm just continuing to keep myself engaged and semi-focuse din this remote way. TO continue to think about writing, to even repeat myself such to cement it deeper into my circuitry. I wonder what I'll end up doing with Nation of Imagi. IT's a big and important story to me, I jsut don't know what's the right publication for it. I feel like I might even want to find a freelance comic artist to see if I could work with them on it and make it freelance. I'll try selling it as a serial to some magazine, make the pitch, but bottom line I will just get it out into the world. I'd pay a comic book artist to work with me on it, and I'd pitch it around. The question is how does that work legally, with all the copyright infringement? Something I'll have to take a look at at some point.

Different thought, is there still legs on my security story? Surveillance isn't really the issue it was when we first found out about it. No one really cares about being watched. I still think it's a funny idea that there's a reality TV show about the NSA, but maybe the thing is when the show gets caught up in its own function and ends up whistle-blowing itself. And then the sick fucked up thing of people wanting the show to go on and thus continue their own self-surveillance. What is the NSA doing these days? they spent the obama era just really getting into accruing everyone's data, and doing what? If their focus is on cyber security, then they must have their hands full with surveilling their own citizens, extremists both left and right. But I think there's a fun government parody to tell. Burn after reading is probably the best inspiration for it, a bunch of people freaking out over nothing, the whole farce of people acting on nothing, an entertaining romp. It's a good model in terms of the political spy thriller. But this is like a political spy thriller satire also with an "Office" dynamic, with these different shades of irreverence and deadly seriousness. There's definitely a potent story there, but what does it look like in contemporary matters? I guess part of that is figuring out what role NSA is playing in current affairs? they're generally the "listening to people" organization, reading your emails and communications without your permissions, and looking out for the people trying to overthrow the US government. Again, as a serial, it could be developed as a very dark comedy. I think the whole thign would be this constant vascillation between it being banal officework and feeling pointless, and being very patriotic and everyhtign they do matters for millions and billions of people, and shit does get that real nad people die because of htem, and then it becomes banal again. And there'd be this strange--well, there was originally a strange meta thing where people watchign the show are also watching themselves.

I'd like to figure out a version of this story that can be a contained short story. THe mission of the NSA is really to collect and deliver information to other branches of the government. So while what they do is important, its not sexy because they're not the ones taking action or "taking out the threat" or sexy propaganda like that.  I think there's a version of this that can work. I like the idea of just paying attention to things that are going on in the world and finding a story to tell about it. A good thing about the security thing is that it's so obviously something I have o context to. Like, it's going to be way trickieer for me to talk about any of the other things going on.

And there is so much going on all the time! And I could probably stand to hone in to details more, i'm such a pie in the sky big picture guy. But I do want to talk about all the thigns going on, not because I have the answers, but because i'm invested in havin ghte conversation and keeping the conversation going. About what we want, about how we move forward, about how we deal with certain problems. THe problems of us all getting along, about creating a world where people don't have to suffer at each other's hands. Because yes, it's never happened before in history, that doesn't mean it can't happen. I think one of my great theses in a book form is to illustrate the fact that new worlds are colliding into us from all sides, and our survival depends on our ability to embrace them, not to keep seeing otherness as a darkness to be fought, our traditions worth preserving. In the worth right now, in leftist discourse, there's one culture that needs to be let go, all other cultures shoudl be preserved. We have to imagine if all these other cultures all get the saem standing, what's exceptional about this one culture is how its dominated all the others for a very long time. So to me it makes sense and theres a pretty clear argument, it's not a double standard. Because we're not talking aobut absolutes or immutable laws of nature, we're tlaking about a reckoning with specific circumstances, the oppostie of abstractions, and our solutions have to be circumstance and context specific. So of course theres basically the story of every part of the world trying to hold on to its sense of self, the sense of self that comes from nation, history, memory, ancestors, so on. Then there's letting that go and embracing that. Damn. So many stories to tell and execute, stories to improvise, to get lost in a trance. I want to practice that more. Because At some point I"m going to have execute don all my ideas, but I should probably make it a point to practice improvisation like that, as part of making a daily writing practice, one I can do even when I don't feel like drafting or outlining anything particularly. I like the idea of putting a lot of thought into all my stories and structuring them ina "pop" style, a way where they're instantly catchy and readable. And they're stories about things going on in the world, from a lot of different angles. I look at something in the contemporary world, something that speaks, maybe something that's not being looked at very closely or in such a way.  There's got to be tons of examples out there, and I guess it all comes form thinking about the lives I know. The disaffection of my generation, the defeat, the --yeah, maybe we havne't even admitted it yet to ourselves, or that's the looming fear, that the millenials have already lost. That we're already beyond the point of the future being in our hands, our moments have already come and gone, we're going to be dust. But we still have life left to life, and much still to be done. Are we going to solve the world once and for all? of course not, but there is this question, no? of how we'll leave our mark? because we will, whether we mean to or not, which is why it's important to be intentional with how we live our lives. Because theyw ill leave an impact.That's the thing that feels lost in our powerlessness. WHat kind of event would it take, something that, if enough people saw it, it would so move them, change their whole life? What would I have to see to totally re-evaluate my life, and in what way? Imagining that conversation, that global converation which is so popular now, a conversation on which everyone agreed, so there as no debate involved. Over a week, the plan would be put into place, to dismantle all these harmful industries. We'd lose all our desire tfor material things, we'd move into a spirit place, we'd be able to give people ways of life, going around healing the land,  and in the next 20 years, we're able to completely rebuild the planet, create a global society that assures every single human being shelter, food, education, healthcare, and labor isn't assigned a monetary value, it's just doing whatever needs doing to keep the delicate and fragile balance in order. It'd have to be a very puritan society in order to funciton, I think. I'd like tobelieve it could be a liberal culture, but I think liberalism might run counter to what makes this kind of balanced world function. But see you keep moving too far off into the future. THere's a world unfolding right now, right along with you. It's a world who's institutions are falling apart. How is it that the internet, which should've made us all connected and better at communicating, seems to have done the opposite?

Or rather, it's the opposite, it has made us so much radically better at communicating, but part of good communicationg is hard communication, and as a society, we're all having a very hard conversation together that we've never had before. And THAT's a story. About the conversation of history happening between people where they're discussing everything. It's like a conversation among a group of friends, where there's one friend who's been a problem-- no, we don't need to go there. But we can jsut imagine two friends who have SO MUCH unspoken between them, years and years of bad blood and buried hatchetts. And somehow they're having this conversation about all of this stuff that's never been dealt with. These kinds of conversations that happen, when all these thigns burst forth like a damn. NOthign unusual about that. It's just more tobe said that if we're looking for a way to understand what's happening in the world, what's happening is an ongoing series of these hard conversations. THe internet is forcing conversations that for decades and centuries and generations remained untouched or suppressed. I can even imagine the short story that lays this out. This is something the main steram presses would eat up, because I feel like I've seen pieces like this. I feel like I really know what people want to see and hear. They do like comforting pleasant thigns, but they do also want the truth, or somethign that feels true.

And so this is a story about one conversation between two people, and imagining all the scenarios happening across the world between people all across the strata of society, and about these hard conversations, these breaking points. 



7/10/21 -- I should probably get into actually draftign at work more, i stillg et this precious idea about unbroken concentration, which there's some sturth to, but it shouldn't get in the way from understadning that I can begin a story at any time in any way. It's usually just about wanting to find a point of entry, a place from which to begin, because I've foudn that does make a difference. What is my point of entry here? THe place where I begin. The first part is a quiet older woman living a very normal life. 



7/23 -- On the TBD list:

--Singularity, The Party, Chimera. 



