# The Cave

The Cave

3/7/21 --I should go ahead and tell a short story about a dystopian kind of thing where everyone lives in a private matrix reality, so they’re not linked at all. I’d have ot come up with the right set up, it’s a fairly simple idea, but just exploring the way in which it might go down that people drift into private dreams, and then the story of how one person might wake up, or how it might happen for all the isolated people to come together into a common dream, and what might happen from that, maybe if it were a situation where people come together to try a common dream, and then drift back into private dreams, and it goes like that ceaselessly like a tide.

Implicit in this whole virtual vs. real discussion is obviously that there’s an underappreciated merit to the real, and implicit in my idea is the idea that the benefit of reality is that it imposes upon you things that everyone must accept in common, and these common things actually connect us, and have a gravity of meaning that is missing from a virtual space that puts all control in the user’s hands.

So many of these things are very commonplace ideas at this point, but I think there’s a way to deliver on the nuance, and of course it all comes down to the specifics, making a character in a certain kind of situation which is compelling and relatable.

So, the general structure in narrative would be finding a character in a situation that is very nice and ideal and like a perfect dream, according to their own personality. But they’d have to be invaded by something unpleasant, an intrusion fomr the outside world.

See, this is why we need to define the history. Do people not know that they’re asleep in their own dream? Or do they know? It’d be interesting if people fully knew they were in a private dream, like this was a choice, but I wonder if they dreamt long enough if they would forget all that? And then what’s it like to be abruptly woken up? And what happens to a human psyche that gets to live in its own lucid dream forever? I’ve definitely had plenty of dreams that make me feel like I never want to wake up, but much like dying we have no choice about waking up, normally. So it’d be interesting to have a situation where people fell asleep one day and never woke up. Would they remember all of it? And would it all be entirely lucid? If it was a dream, of course all this stuff would be happening that made no sense and it wouldn’t matter, because it’d just keep going and going, I guess what makes it interesting is when the nightmares come, or contents of your dream become scary because its parts of your psyche you don’t know how to deal with. So there has to be an element of lucidity, where the person knows, or everyone becomes trained as a lucid dreamer so they can always direct what’s happening, and it’s probably this vascillating cycle of intense control, and with increased pleasure and satisfaction, people tend to drift away, until at some point they end up drifting into nasty nightmares and things they don’t like to remember, and at that point their lucid dreaming instincts kick in and they exercise their power to change reality.

 SO you’d follow someone in their dream life as it vascilates between their pleasures and falling into fears and how they exercise their impulse to control reality to just keep floating along, and they’ve been doing this for maybe decades. Of course a key to this is the fact that their human bodies still need nutrition and to be preserved. Similar to the matrix, they’d need pods to stimulate their muscles and keep from withering up.

SO what’s making this different from the matrix? First off, they’re private dreams, they’re not in a common internet reality. The whole thing is based on solipsism, as this reaction against the realities of connection, if anything the dream is similar to the conservative American dream of radical and rugged individualism. And it got this way because everyone got sick of the internet, so it wasn’t like the computers coaxed people into sleep, it’s more like this is what most people wanted and drifted into. And did everyone do it? There’s questions here, obviously, because I’m trying to define a single possible future, so we have to make some choices about a certain chain of events, and think about the implications of those decisions. I think the important nuggets for me in this one is simply “Everyone escaping and getting lost in private dreams, and re-confronting common reality after a long vacation.”

 One of aspects that seems necessary to this is that reality does have to be a pile of shit, of course mainly because people abandoned it. But we also need to see clearly what we’ve been missing since we’ve been in our own dreams. This is an age old question, one I still deal with, and why it’s relevant to me. We believe implicitly that it’s an objective value, that there _is_ an objective value to knowing the truth. That we should always choose a truth that is not preferable to a preferable lie. But why? That should be the challenge of this story. We always assume the truth we dislike is better than the lie we prefer, why? Even right now I have trouble articulating an argument why you should. I find myself just saying, “Because it’s the truth. THe truth is inherently good, even if it’s not to our liking personally-- and here perhaps is the key. The truth is _BIGGER_ than you. That without the truth, we would live in the small box of our own minds, and not see how big everything really is, and that there are other like us, but different, and in this world with us. ANd that when we lie to ourselves, we refuse to connect, and we are small.

 A-ha! So there is something here, a moral that’s not an empty platitude, something that actually makes sense when you see it. THe truth we dislike is important because once we accept it, we actually become so much bigger.

So the story would follow someone lost in their dream, being forced awake into shitty reality, and it being this real question, why the fuck pick truth over reality, really? And then it has to be made clear that truth is bigger than you, and that’s why it’s important. Cool. I can outline this further at a later date.

4/20/21 -- So the story starts off with a 15 year old girl named Renee. She’s living in a beautiful cabin in the woods, with animal friends and quiet hikes, living a perfect day on repeat pretty much. But she gets pulled out. Does someone come into her world to pull her out? I think she has ot be jarring pulled awake. This brings up questions about how the whole thign operates. Because we’re imagining a version of VR that’s not that far off. The experience is detailed enough that with any invasive surgery, you can place this little device on you temple, close your eyes, and then it basically beams all the fake virtual reality using your own brain chemistry, so that VR is as convincing as any dream or real life. There is a whole online world and community and it’s obviously becoming hugely popular, and we have to establish a version of events and their consequences, but we’re still early on in this process. THe real world is still very much active, still very much a shit show, potentially even worse as we deal with power struggles, dwindling resources, climate disasters, and so on. So naturally lots of people have been going online, and all of this is still subjected to free-market, unregulated shenanigans, because there’s not a clear moral consensus on what to do about the VR situation. But we’ll pick all this up in context. The reality for Renee is she is a traumatized young woman, I had thought on the edge of graduating high school, and even though she’s from a rich family, well-protected, and she’s been told she can do anything she wants in this world, she still sees all of the terrible, horrible awful things; she still knows her family’s wealth is happening at the expense of the world. She still knows her father has been raping her. Is that necessary? Maybe it’s a little extra. Maybe it’s enough to be aware of this confluence of her family’s wealth, the state of hte world, the general lack of happiness and of course her family would have the resources for the most cuttign edge VR. and where does her family stand on the whole debate? Perhaps they’re even invested in it? If they’re shamelessly invested in it because they know it’s the way things are going, they probably also might be part of the camp that see it as a good thing, an opportunity for world leaders to take care of a lot of these problems without people using all these resources. It’s the kind of big-picture thinkin rich people are inclined to, because it reduces individuals to data points and averages. So they probably have a good line of thought about wanting to roll out more and more of this VR stuff, and setting up these clinics, where people can choose to live most of their lives in VR, and in this way reduce their footprint, and it gets branded as this mental health therapeutic centre.

 At the same time, all the people against all this wil fall along many different lines. There will even be other members of the business community who don’t want everyone going to sleep because they then lose their consumers. There’s gotta be a huge lobby, made up of all the people who’s wealth and assets depend on consumption, trying to fight the VR lobby. And her name is Abby, like a holy sacred place. If Abby’s family belongs to the VR lobby, it’s because they obviously know it’s a cash cow, the way of the future, but they also have convinced themselves VR will save the planet. They probably think of themselves as good, progressive parents and progressive people who care aout climate change and creating a better world for their children. So they think it could e a great thing to create all of these centers that are providing a mental health service. Of course people can oviously privately own their VR, but considering all of the issues with people going catatonic, not waking up, dying in VR because they never unplug, and there’s obviously a huge backlash among many people to treat it as a dangerous and addictive narcotic that needs to be made illegal.

 It’s the same way with cellphones, where there’s a strong argument that cellphones are bad bad bad for our health, but they’ve become so engrained in the fabric of society there’s no way we could make them illegal. It would be the same thign with VR, where there’s too much demand, too much money and economy there, to make it illegal. Civil liberties hawks will go in defense of everyone’s right ot live whatever kidn of life they want, and there will be many arguments from futurists aout how it’s superior, and all we nede to figure out is how to no longer need our biological bodies, and the people who generally see it as a net benefit, and of course this new argument about how it might actually save the planet to be having half the population reduce their use of resources by at least 75%, and it’ll allow those who stay active in the analog world to work together to change things which were impossible to change when the systems of the world had to e operating 24/7 at max capacity, and we’re not quite at that elevel yet. The real world is very much as it is now, but there is a growing epidemic of people going catatonic, and Abby is one of these people,

 And so what this is, is a story about a family dealing with addiction. Abby is horribly depressed, for very good reasons. She sees the horror in the world. And her experiences of life have made her associate being connected to others as something painful. The family dynamic has to make it clear why Abby doesn’t feel safe in connections with other people, why she will slide into a solipsistic reality. Perhaps it’s as simple as the fact that the parents are technically separated, but still raising the kids together, the kind of things that suck but we take for granted as part of reality. Nothing we’d call intolerable, but enough for someone who grew up in a world halfway real and halfway digital, to finally just be able to fall into the hole of perfect control, especially when real life in a rich family that’s not very happy.

 So Abby’s in a fantasy coma. SHe gets pulled out of it, violently, and she’s in the hospital. They catch her right at the beginning of it. It’s the kind of thing where this is the first time it’s happened to her, they’re shaking her awake, and they rush her to the hospital, and they have to give her something that forces her awake out of the coma, so she wasn’t out long, but probably a full 24 hours.

 How does it work if you do this while you’re awake, how does sleep happen, where does the borderline exist? That’s probably why they have safety recommendations that you only do it for a few hours at a time and you should e fully awake, and this becomes part of the problem, is people will do it so long that they fall asleep seemlessly into a dream and their body doesn’t know that it’s awake, and that’s how people start drifting into endless dreams.

 SO they wake her up, they probably want to take VR away from her. She’s awake, alive, dealing with things.

 THe parents are probably now in a moral crisis because they were on the side of making lots of money on VR, are they suddenly questioning whether VR is really worthwhile?

 And when they talk to their daughter, and try to get her help, how does that go?

The father probably makes a hypocritical argument about the merits of objective reality, the one that I and many people would make,

 And that’s when she snaps back with all the perfectly valid points, things theoretically he agrees with as someone who’s investing in a company building living arrangements for people to basically sleep the rest of their bodily lives away in VR to save the planet. BUt of course when it’s his daughter it’s not so easy. And he can’t deny that the situation in the world is precarious. He could make the argument that there’s a way to make the world a better place with the VR, but that’s the point, to make _this_ world better, because there’s something about it VR will never be better at.

 But what do they decide to do? Because if she’s depressed, and convinced enough that she’ll threaten suicide, then the parents have no choice to go let her fall asleep in one of these VR homes, and they can go visit her, but there will be something very sad for the parents the whole time.

 So there’s an arc here:

1. Abby in her dream
2. Abby waking up in the hospital
3. Going home with parents, the shitty reality
4. The parent’s bad relationship, their mutual investment in VR, their questioning of it.
5. A conversation: Reality is better, stay with it! \(is it?\)
6. The threat of suicide, the decision to want to go into these virtual homes. What other choice is there?
7. Admitting their daughter to a fantasy life, the parents terribly sad.

An interesting thought: I’m framing this now in a negative light. Or rather, there are more positive versions of this story where people who are fully into the VR world could have no mental health problems, and we shouldn’t assume that only people with mental issues woudl want to live in VR. In fact, that’s probably the point we want to make with Abby. She’s actually a normal kid for her world and society. She’s as normal as her circumstances could make sense of. Being a rich well protected kid in a world that’s only been getting worse and grimmer, growing up also with constant access to other realities that has only increased with time, how could you call that an unhealthy reaction? She doesn’t have a mental issue at all, she’s the perfect product of the world she was brought up into. This is will be a very understandable progression. We will obviously still insist on the importance of reality, I will know it for myself. But in this speculation,we won’t pretend we can definitively preach to people that real life is better than any dream, even if I believe this to be true for myself.

 I think I do want to keep some element of hope in the real world though, because my argument is based on saying there’s value in living in a world that’s much bigger than you. That’s going to be hard to demonstrate with this bigger world being such a clusterfuck. I think it’ll have to come back to these parents, quasi hip buddhists, who have to learn to accept the world they created for their daughter, and harsh realities, and still be able to see the value of real life, even if they couldn’t give it to their daughter.

4/22/21

This is the story of a young woman living in a beautiful private fantasy, being pulled out of it violently, back into the world of NY 2030. We see her with her family dealing with the fallout and recovery from a coma, and how the family deals with it, especially being wealthy investors in the very technology their daughter is now abusing, and the family themselves questioning their position on the technology.

The larger circumstance: VR has become more and more pronounced over the decade, reaching a similar status as phone in terms of their penetration into the fabric of society. Much of the saem activity that used to happen on phones now also happens on VR. Over the decade though, there’s also a huge increase in people who’ve gone catatonic, especially as a new technology breakthrough has been made where the VR interfaces directly with your prefrontal cortex, which has taken the comatose cases off the charts, and the world is in the middle of a war over what to do about it. A lot of big financial people are freaking out because they’re losing consumers and laborers. Populations are tanking. BAsically, people think its a good thing, they think its a bad thing, and the only thing that’s clear is that the world continues to be a mess. There’s also an emerging argument for encouraging the comatose. Creating and opening centers around the world that allow people to sleep as long as they want, demanding little resources to sustain their bodies, muscle stimulations to keep the body from atrophying, and the ability to come and go as people please. It’s like a nwe living situation that resembles a mausoleum. But people are calling it therapeutic, a defense for civil lierties, and even good for the planet, though of course its controversial mostly to conservatives and republicans who think it will destroy the economy.

Once we get the full scope of the world and the debate around this epidemic of people leaving the real world, the father who’s a large investor in these new homes has to talk to his daughter and make the case for objective reality and its value. She has to counter back with a strong argument.

And the father and mother will ultimately let her move into one of these places, especially since she’s threatening suicide if they don’t let her, and it ends on a note of great sadness. Also, i’ve decided it should be two dads, gay parents, she’s adopted.

At what point do I jump into the writing? Really whenever I want, the more my head is geared up for it. I might attend to some other tasks, do lunch and meeting w/ Tom, then write. I’ve got the next hour and a half, maybe just start going with part 1? Better than not doing it at all.

4/25/21



