# Draft 2 \(6/4/21\)

The world was saved, once and for all, on November 3rd, 2021, around 5:30 PM, at Bethesda Fountain in Central Park. Most people still don't know that the world was saved then, so I'm telling the story in the hopes that whoever reads it might find some peace of mind.

The world was saved by a seventeen year old girl named Maya De La Curz

The play might not have done anything if it happened at any other time, but the circumstances around it were just such that it happened right when everyone needed it to happen. 

The Mayoral election for New York City was also happening that day. Maya's mother, Maria, was running for mayor. She didn't win, but that was at least partly because on election day, massive protests turned into riots and military intervention, and the rich and powerful stole the election to put in their own puppet, Charles Kingsley. Additionally, a freak Hurricane Omega, the 53rd hurricane of the year, battered the island and wiped out power across the city on that day. While this was unfortunate, it allowed Maya to escape her hospital room, with the assistance of her Uncle Eddie, who wheeled her out of Sloan Kettering amidst the chaos, across the Upper East Side and down to Bethesda Park, so that she could see her dream come to life before hers ended.

Maya's play wouldn't have happened at all without her two closest friends, Jordan and Kendra, who scrambled across the city the whole day gathering resources and people to make it happen. Maya's mother, Maria, also would've never allowed it to happen, except that she was pre-occupied with fighting the military police-state insurgence trying to lock down the city. 

