# Draft 3 \(6/7/21\)

The world was saved once and for all on November 2nd, 2021, about 5:50 PM EST, at Bethesda Fountain in Central Park. Most of the world didn't notice. It was saved through collective effort, but there was a hero who brought it about: Maya De La Cruz, seventeen years old. 

Maya received a cancer diagnosis shortly after New Years of 2021. A rare form of lymphoma, already advanced and aggressive. In the dreamy, unreal days following her diagnosis, while she was still in the hospital, on a top-grade cocktail of pain-killers, she conceived of a play.

It began more as a series of images rather than a proper story. In her mind, she saw dreamy colors, movements, sounds, and dancing. While she'd written many silly little stories in her life, stored in her computer and shown to only a few, whatever was brewing in her head told it her needed to be as real as it could be, a performance for an audience, something immediate. A play that she would be in. It would take the rest of the year, and life lived, to bring it about into its complete form. 

She had no idea at any point that her play would save the world, nor did she realize that it had done so once it happened. It was just a dream she wanted to come true before she died.

She could never tell this explicitly to her mother, Maria, for a few reasons. First, was that Maria refused to believe that Maya was dying, or would die. Maria had decided to run for Mayor of New York City just three weeks before Maya's cancer diagnosis, after a large outpouring of calls for her to do so among the various communities that saw Maria as the best chance the city had to have any kind of bright future.

Maria had been a life-long city organizer, a thorn in the side of every power broker and elite of the city. While she never had a media presence, name or face recognition, she'd been known among most of the most worst-off communities in the city as an angel who seemed to appear in the midst of every crisis, and marshall resources together for the needy. Many times people had thought she should run for city council, and every time she declined, saying that she wouldn't be able to help people if she was stuck behind a desk.

Her iron will

