# Brainstorming

Notes for 2nd draft:

1. Thesis paper: be clear and academic in language, even if it's going to get really personal.
2. Narrative is an interweaving of the recovered myth, and the personal life anecdotes and narrative that align with it. Maybe evasive at first.
3. Try using this redaction/slashing method. Might help to the theme of the story, it's situation as an academic paper, all the things the narrator wants to say, but then feels like he can't say. 
4. We can talk about a lot of things in this 'paper' really, there's an analysis of cancel culture, restorative justice, social justice, revolutionary sentiment. All the schisms happening in society particularly along generational lines. Censorship, free speech, the evolution of ideologies. IT'll be helpful for it read a little high-falutan and like someone who's spent too much time in universities with the lingo, especially as it applies to very visceral real situations, 

6/18/21 -- Totally lost all my guidance of the outline I came up with fors the story, but let me try to rewrite it here:



The story is framed as a Thesis paper by Oliver Kerrigan, which is supposed to be for his individualized study program to say declare declare his research project, adn what was it?  A sociological study of the generational conflict between baby-boomers and millenials. Not quite, doesn't feel write. He was doing some kind of vaguely academic research composed of history, sociology, psychology, critical theory, philosophy, anthropology, like if a liberal arts graduate degree were a cocktail, it'd be a LOng Island Iced Tea. That should be part of it form the beginning, is that he's been doing this totaly in articualte hodgepodge of research over the last two years and is supposed to make, well a thesis out of his research, and he was probably already kind of a wreck in trying to synthesize this work together. But it has to start with at least acknowledging his position, trying to speak about it academic lingo, like "The place of contemporary graduate student is a site of itnersectional soceital neuroses that has bred countless societal issues. And that's crossed out. But I don't want it to be too unclear.

I want this to be larger in scope now, because that's my jam, I like grandiose things. This is a story in which to talk about not simply the contemporary struggle of generations and human history, but specifically through the lens of academia, which we see as being in a major crisis. I had a more concrete thought about this angle of academia, but we'll see if I can recover it in brain storming here.

We start just like any thesis would start, talking about the background of the research, and enticing us by telling us what's going to happen in the paper. He's going to be writing a memoir interwoven with his research and speculation. He's going to basically be providing a memoir that is balanced against academic language that keeps parts of his own life at a distance form himself. He's going to describe his life with his father, watching the various threads of the world evolve, finally leading up to the culture war, the disgrace of his father, and leading up to this point where his own future is dependant on either publicly disavowing his father, or what? At Which point in his research he discovers this ancient myth and loses himself in translating it and presentign it for the reader. He then provides some summary and analysis, maybe a little bit of extra information, sicne throughout he is acknowledging the audience personally: the thesis committee, his fellow peers at school, family and friends, and ultimately his ather. He makes his thesis about the spiritual understanding of belonging to history and conducting a relationship with generations, the need to identify with and own all of it, what it means to step into your own life, and that all any of us owe is to do what we can to extend a chance to seven generations from now. It will be a very compelling essay, and it ends with him handing it in and withdrawing from school and academia, which he also takes the itme to say is vitally important, but probably going through swan song of sorts, and what replaces it is up to us to decide, and we just have to know that we will make mistakes and our children will pay for it, and we can only do our best not to. All we can do is make sure we give our future selves a chance to pass it along. 

We've got this story developing of a famous academic who's getting canceled, and his son who's in struggle between holding up what his dad represents, everything he cherishes, everything he seeks to inherit, stands to inherit, even though he's now aware of the great evil its founded upon, and the fact that it's crumbling anyway--or is it? I think it is, but maybe that's part of the argument to be made. So This kid, Oliver we'll call him, has been doing this individualized study for his Masters of Arts, and he was probably working towards being some kind of scholar generally, something in the field of theory and humanities, but I think he's been woefully disillusioned like many of us have, without a real sense of what to do. But he's going through college watching his father's reputation go down the drain, trying to make sense of the things happening in the world, the movements, trying to analyze the shifts between generations, so maybe he's doing some kind of anthropology, sociology, probably most likely sociology about the specificities of the current changes in culture, as well as the way it situates itself in a lot of other contexts. I think it's the kind of thing where this guy is raised in the academy, he knows the lingo and is pretty well-read, but maybe part of what he's gone through recently is realizing that a lot of the things he was raised on by his father are now considered bogus. So slowly throughout school, even somewhat outside of his assigned work, he's been re-educating himself with the new material, the different classes. He's probably got to go outside his normal circle of peers to acutally hear the things he needs to hear and engage with the conversations. On an imaginary version of Harvard's campus, there's all this social and generational turmoil going on, and he's got somewhat of a privileged seat, even though his father's career is getting cancelled, and Oliver is probably just trying to keep out of sight as much as possible, away form the world and buried in study, and writing his way out. 



Which is how he arrives where I've arrived at: first off, identifying the problem between generations in a more esoteric way, trying to speak to his own generation and the situation they're in. And it's that conclusion of how necessary it is to understand that the shames of the past have to be ours to own and inherit, and our ancestors, the people we put on pedestals for guidance, are really only earlier, more ignorant forms of ourselves. We must own all their successes and failures and crimes as our own to take responsibility for. And we must take our place in the chain, to do what our ancestors have always done: worked to give the next generation a chance. 

But we're talking about expanding the real world story a little more, building out the tumultuous situation. Right, and how does Oliver's conclusion lead him to dropping out of his degree, how does it lead him to deal with his father? He is probably facing criminal charges for statutory rape, no, he did some Louis type shit, where it's accusations of rape, and it is rape, but situations where he himself didn't think of it as rape, or disagrees with it. I think similar to the Louie situation where there's enough ambiguity that it's not criminal, but in today's world it's understood as unacceptable behavior, and one that doesn't allow for retribution at this point in time. 

I think in a certain way, the paper is something addressed to his father. It's addressed to the world and all his peers, but it's also addressed to "The Boomer" the one parent who the millenial sees as their enemy, the source of all problem and conflict, and all these older folks are now getting shamed and disgraced and justice doesn't seem clear and no one i happy with the revenge beign waged. I don't think Oliver will do any wholesale condemning of his father, jump on a bandwagon to avoid mob justice. I think he'll lay out his story and his argument to demonstrate that he thinks whatever his father has done is something he has to learn to live with as a part of himself, and something he has to take responsibility for. Maybe he'll start by going camping with his dad and talking.



Taru & The Mask -- The myth itself could use some symbolic clarity. The point of it for me is to illustrate the fact of tradition, how a way of life is passed from generation to generation, a systemic cycle, and how one learns about the truth of that cycle and is horrified, and we swear to be different than our parents, to do things right and change things, but in all of history no generation has avoided mustakes, or if they did things better, there was no way to keep their kids from doing the same thing. And the magic is Taru realizing he is not just Taru, but he is the living vessel ofhis ancestors, their hopes of redemption, and while they might want things from him, he will ultimately make his own choices. I think maybe I don't know what else I want this myth to be yet, but the current attempt on it makes enough sense. 



Story structure wise, it feels as though it probably won't be interspersed like I imagined. It'll be more like this autobiographical essay considering a whole bunch of different things, reaching his point of crisis. What is his point of crisis? I have to imagine it's something like people calling for him to publicly condemn his father, like even people on his thesis board, people who want to give him opportunities in academia, but need him to publicly distance hismefl from his father in order for these opportunities to open up. I just don't want this to be taken as some kind of white male defense of tradition. i want it to be clear if anything he's finally taken this authentic place in himself where he's not living in his father's shadow anymore, he's leaving the program because this was something his father always wanted for him, and it was something he thought he wanted for himself,  but I think he's breaking the mask in the same way that Taru does. It's a statement that says, "Yes, I'm going forward without a guidance, without a role model, and I don't know if there's a better way to assure a future for our children, but we've got to try something new.

It's like being all of the ancestors, that whole accumulation of the same thing happening over and over again, and it's about finally trying something new, doing so in an authentic way. 

It also brings in mind what it means to preserve and understand the past. Because education will always be important, but considering all the debates about critical race theory going on now, it's also relevant here. We all have to choose how we're going to tell the story, how honest we're going to be, how honest we can be about it. Because we don't want to destroy universities, we don't want to eliminate all education, but we do want to be honest about the fact that there are many serious problems with it that need fixing. It's part of a whole system of life around the world that needs a major overhaul. And we, the youth, have to do the work of assimilating our ancestors, becoming the ancestors, and only once form that understanding do we act. We no longer look to our own older selves as role models, because in this world, they are children just like us. We must go with all the power and glory, and all the shame and regret, and use every facet of ancestral memory, to move forward into a new world, with our north star only being to give a chance for the next generation, not to tell them to become us or live one life over and over again, ut just to live in such a way that seven generations from now they have a chance to make their own choice. The question of our survival or extinction, the buck always gets passed to the next batch, and the only thing that assures that survival is each generation receiving an understanding of why the game is worth playing, and how to play it such that we can keep it going and keep passing the ball. 

**So there's a lot going on here, and I think we're going to mainly visit it as like a thesis that's meant to be delivered as the sum of his work in grad school, addressed like any academic paper is, but at some point, Oliver acknowledges his audience: his mentors on his thesis board, his peers in school, his family, and finally his father. And he's talking about what he studied, by way of talking about his life, growing up what it was like, and then coming to the conflict emerging in the beginning of college, the crisis at home and in the world evolving, and these crises global and personal being reflected in the course of his studies, which he keeps mentioning more in the context about how it's affected him, and its half personal confession, half using himself as a case study and speaking for academically neutral about the essence of his own challenge, which should hopefully be a little funny. I think his character is something similar to Jared in Silicon Valley. And it this narrative arrives at the crisis of all his research and school work accumulating at the same time he's been asked to make some definitive statement about his father, about where he stands, what are his beliefs and are they acceptable to the audience? And it's at this point of immense pressure that he introduces his work translating the ancient Myth of Taru & The Mask. After relaying the story, he offers his thesis conclusion, his answer about understanding the connection of generations, an answer that is no answer, one that says first you have to konw this, then you don't have to know anything else. Then after delivering his Thesis and conclusion, it's announcing his withdrawal from the program, his admission that he's now someone without a path, and that his only north star is to somehow assure that the next generation gets a chance to keep passing the buck.** 

This is the story structure for reference ^^^^^





"While it might be true that it has never before happened in all of human history that people have been able live together in a sustained way without abusing and murdering eah other and creating heirarchy, I still don't believe this is grounds to believe that it's imposible to imagine this no longer being that case, that the history means it's not worth the effort."



7/3 reiterated the thesis for myself. Helped clariy the three main strains, being th epoem, the academic analysis, and the memoir, and I"m still thinking about how to structure that all together, but I thinking I want it to be as fluid as possible. But what's the hook? inititally, I imagined the perosnal memoir beign eased into, then i was starting to come very much from that perspecitve, but had toruble finding my footing. WHat I need to do is find the most effective hook to pull people in with, something that gives them the full picture of what they're about to read, and makes sure they'll actually be interested to find out.

That pitch is something like making it clear that this kid is the son of a famous scholar who's been canceled, and the son himself has just dropped out of school and given up on an academic career in his father's footsteps. Maybe that's an angle i need to abandon. What if he's not abandoning school? what if he's stepping into it authentically? That doesn't feel right either. But it oculd be. He's got to be ultra aware of the place of academia as a tradition, and if his whole pitch is on assimilating and identifying with previous traditions as a framework for both moving beyond idolatry and finding a sense of responsibility, then he would be finidng his place with writing this thesis genuinely, and so he's notdropping out. But, this is both a thesis and an open letter. But his situatin is such that he's put under a lot of pressure. His classmates are calling for him to speak out, his father is calling for his loyalty and defense, or maybe even not. Maybe his dad is like "go ahead and betray me or else you'll never get an academic career, and you should of course work for an academic career. " and so now he's in this really strange place where he's being asked to say something by his peers, and of course the summation of his research is due, and he's been struggling with living in his father's shadow, what it means to step out into his own, and then his research leads him to discover this story that helps him make sense of his position, and his research. 

ANd I think the structure has to be an interpolation of his thesis or statement of examples, chronologically until it leads up to his work with the myth. But to talk about that whole dilemma, is that giving anythign way or makign it redundant? I think not, because the narrative  and memoir carrie sup to the point of crisis, and it's left to the later part of Taru & the Mask to reveal the solution of identification, and from there deliver some kind of climax about his own situation. 

BUt where is he writing from? From a good place, theoretically, but if he was fully adjusted, woudl he be writing a memoir as part of a thesis in individualized study.

So I need an absolute cap of 30 pages, closer to 20-25 pages, which I believe is possible, it means the story can be very precise, moving from point to point. I need to watch out about being too preachy. Because this is just the story of a white boy of privilege and his position in academia. The best he can do is honestly confess where he stands with regard to all these things, and what he wants to convey is the way in which he feels like he has a grounding that he didn't have. But the question remains, where does he stand in regards to his father? ANd what his own imagination was for his life, where it was set out for him to have a comfy life in an academic institution, separated from the dramas of the world, casually analyzing other people's struggles with no skin in the game. But he has skin the game. THe narrative would be that he has to condemn his father, and that garuantees his ability to succeed in academia, and even his father supports this take down. If he defends his father, much as it will make him proud, it will forever ruin his ability to get an academic position at a university. So it almost doesnt seem like a choice unless he decides to walk away from academia altogether and launch into something else. Maybe getting together with his brilliant peers, to think critically and talk in depth and imagine and strategize and organize for a better future. It'd have to revolve around alternative educational systems, ways to hack academia. Because that's a big part of this whole thing, understanding that the tradition of universitites is no longer sufficient, and there's an need for new institutions that integrate with the fact that most people learn through the internet now. Community building online. Don't blow this out too much. IT'll be necessary to keep in mind the person of Oliver and how he's approaching this situation. 

& My goal tomorrow \(sunday\) is to get up by 7:30, have  structured and disciplined morning and get writing by an early hour, and I htink I can get a good draft by midway through the day. 

7/5/21 Since i've been unable to focus, and have actually been pretty busy running the shop, I'll just take this idle time to articulate myself a few of what I"d call the major events that should define Oliver's autobiography, a few scenes. There should be one scene that paints the relationship he had with his father in his youth.

1\) Childhood scene, dad in prime, instilling beliefs in child

2\) Reaction to major world events, 9/11 iraq war, occupy wall street, NSA, Trump.

3\) Meeting people at college.

4\) First allegations don't turn into anything

5\) John describing his frustration with young SJW's, going on a speaking tour, getting protested

6\) Going on a trip with his school friends that show him what people are talking about. 

I feel like John Kerrigan's theoretical career was built on an academic foundation of "Holism" where he fought agians tht speclizaiotn that takes places in a lot fo universities and reformed a lot fo practices in his university. He gave talks that synthesized lots of different disciplines to reach diferent conclusions about issues than specialists were able to. We consulted with think tanks and presidents. HE's someone who thought of himself as a rebellious cultural critic. He was a baby-boomer. He came up in the free love time, watched hsi generation become yuppies, something he always bemoaned and criticized. WHat happened is that he did a few radical thigns when he was younger and wrote some famous book, and on that wave of initial fame, got quickly swept up and talked in to the comfortable life of a prestigious academic, and along with it, lots of sex. Then he got Oliver's mom knocked up, and he took it as an opportunity to settle in a bit. JOhn Kerrigan continued his work and basically became one of those bad dads whose always out doing "important shit" and was a trash husband. ANd basically spent all of Oliver's growing up just criticizing things the USA was doing, but doing nothign else about it. HE did his interdisciplinary work. He's supposed ot be an example of what we looked up to in the baby boomers, what they thought was cool and revolutionary about themselves, and then see how they stumbled through all the terrors of the world and changed nothing. He would be criticized for being someone who was supposed to be an edgy, radical, counter-cultural guy in this day, but as time wore on, he went around repeating his same old trope, but never actually taking any risks because he liked his comfy life, and he had no skin in the game. basically a do nothing critic for the second half of his career, riding one major success from his youth, trying to stay relevant but ultimatley cushy in his heigtened academic career, and of course all this time he's still teaching and peopel say he's great but the rumors are also going around about his actions with young female students. And the chain of events is probably that rumors and allegations are brought up against him, and this causes him to launch on a whole new tirade and line of criticism in his career: analyzing PC culture, SJW's, and of course he's getting strong reaction, so he feels like he's having a lat ein life resurgence, but he's also seeing all his relationship becoming compromised. THe first set of allegations doesnt harm him, but it hasn't stopped word from spreading, and he's going to deliver a talk at a university, and he's being protested against and censored. Just before this Oliver's parents get divorced, which means JOhn is becoming more and more unhinged, leaning into this freedom of self-expression, and basically claiming a form of fatalism that the next generation is screwed unless they learn to return to traditions. ANd as he's reaching a fever pitch of alt-right conversion, that's when a new round of accusations come out, and among those making the accusations are Oliver's own friends.

It's probably something like his father made an advance, and when she refused he called her a slur. In order for it to make sense, it has to be that John probably had a student who sympathized with him, thought he was being set up and cancelled, and he took comfort in her, and then tried to make a move, and she didn't know how to say no.  And so it's not OLiver's friend directly, but it is a girl Oliver knows, and Oliver's friend is the one who confronts him and tells him they're going to report it. Doing so will undoubtedly end his father's tenure at the school. 

7/6 -- I think this new angle is that i need to drop the angle of the academic paper. Let this just be the testimony of Oliver Kerrigan about his father, John Kerrigan, because it should be easy enough to just tell his story, son of a famous academic, grown up in academia, and stop trying to juggle the whole thesis paper aspect of it. It can just be due to his academic background that he is going through his life dealing with this challenge, and then talking about it. I still think it could be cool if there could be some form of allusion to the academic style, but that would be so much work, and it could also make it more borign and less readable. What's going to be more substantive is his story about his life. Focus less on the academic analysis, it'll still inform his view of the world. So just let Oliver speak about his life in his own way. I was using the academic stuff as a way to structure everything, but it's more important to write through the trajectory of life, which he can explain his understanding of. So with my time tomorrow, it's just him telling his story, which I've got a good idea of what I want to hit across the whole story, wanting to focus on memories and scenes. Like each of his little mini-theses regarding these structures of generational drama, his way of making sense of things, gets an example from his life. That is my number one goal for tomorrow, but I also have thursday. Thursday might be for more brainstorming on singularity. 

There is a logical sequence to this whole story, but right now I just need to torpedo through it. It'll be like a perfect assemblage of: Here's the big idea applied to society, and then here's what was going on in my life beforehand, and here's the scene or set of scenes or the circumstance related to it. It all threads together. 

I need to invent at least one main friend, though it should at least be a crew. Oliver probably would've grown up in a fancy high school and private education and knew a handful of people who were also going to Harvard on legacy, so he was probably ready to have a pretty insular experience, except in some way he met someone totally unlike him, a brilliant young woman, probably someone he had a crush on. Because even in an elite academic environment there are still things that are going to be pretty insular. The only way Oliver is going to burst his bubble is through meeting some specific person who serves as the doorway for him, a way he can learn about the world of millennial PC culture, and go in with this person and have the debates and the arguments and everything else. And of course he's in love with her, and she knows, but she's definitely not in love with him back, and she also teaches him to have female friends whom he can be attracted to and respect and remain friends with. She represents a way to feel in touch with her generation in a way his father obviously cannot be. And so most of the action in the story has to take place in the college years. And it's trying to understand these new ways of looking at the world that are emerging in his generation, and feeling the disconnect, especially through his father's influence, and his eventual but authentic Dances With Wolves conversion, at least up to a point. Because while his relationship with this girl is evolving, thigns with his dad are deteriorating. He's accused of having an affair with a student, which is first off scandalous because its an affair, but the student also claims he coerced her. But no charges are brought against him, and his dad walks away scot free. He's lost his marriage, and people are starting to look at him differently, but he's basically beginning to critique millennials and their outrage culture. He's going on these whole new lines of thought and crticism that are obviously pissing people off, but 

7/8/21 -- Jesus christ finally! It's terrible, but it's a finished draft that doe sin some way touch upon everythign I wanted to do. It's probably gonna end up being 45-50 pages, which is fine, because a story should be as long as it needs to be. I think the work from here in coming back to it is going to be cleaning up obviously, restructuring, figuring out the right places to put what points. I almost feel like there's a bullet list in my head, a sense of the proper order in which to mention things. So I'll want to come back and formalize that list, make sure I hit all the points. I wonder if this story might lend itself to vignettes, I"m getting a vibe that there's lots of these little scenes, something which is makign the story more cinematic. It's like the proper sequencing of Oliver's academic exposition looking at things in an academic macro scale, and then zooming in onto his whole life, and sequencing that properly. And then it should hit on home after Taru & The Mask does its work as a story with Oliver finally saying how he feels about his father and making the ultimate point I"m trying to make about this spiritual understanding of what it means to relate to the past, to the ancestors, to history, and to take ownership of your place in life.

So it's all there, this story is definitely going to take some work though. Which is fine, I at least know what this story has to be, and writings scenes was actually fun today. I will probably expand and make the story deepr as I go, adn then have to figure out where to trim it back later on. But I'll call this a finished draft for now, enough to move on to the next gigantic story. 



