# Draft 2

1. I am here to argue that the institution of the Academy, Academia, the University system as it exists today, is one which will soon be extinct, and shouldn't be missed. I am further here to elucidate what I see as the major crisis of our era, which is the annihilation of most beliefs and traditions that has carried humanity to this point in the the course of civilization, and as of yet remains without a paradigm or any form of guidance. I see these two points as inextricable, and hope to make sense of it here for the reader.
2. As part of my studies in world mythology, anthropology, and literary archaeology and philology, as well as the personal quest for such a guidance for a lost generation, I came upon an under-studied myth called "Taru & The Mask" attributed by hellenistic Egyptian scholars to the fabled Atlantis. No one can speak to the historical truth of its source, and though my studies called for venturing some vaguely scientific claim for that source, I instead found more interest in the story itself, whatever the truth of its origins. I will be translating and transcribing said myth here since it has proven to be instructive to me not only in articulating specific contemporary psycho-social problems, but also their relations to various intimate and personal struggles which are important for me to engage with. To my trusted mentors on the thesis committee I pre-emptively know would have cautioned me against any personal inclusions: respectfully, fuck off.
3. This will not be a typical thesis. I will be engaging in historical analysis and critique, literary criticism, psychoanalysis, and personal memoir and auto-fiction. Luckily, I've already withdrawn fully from the school and have no interest in receiving my degree anymore. This hopefully will only increase the interest of you, the reader, to understand why someone in my position would literally throw everything away and suggest torching the academic institution.
4. I'll begin with autobiography, not because the facts aren't already known, but because when it's put into the right context I think the reader won't be able to help but draw the same conclusion I have.
5. I'll begin with saying that the only reason I got into a Graduate History Program at Harvard is because my father, John Kerrigan, is who he is. I was born in the academic world, most likely conceived in it, by my father and mother, who was his TA. It was only in the most recent months of reconsidering and retracting my whole life that I was able to realize the timing of my birth and my parent's wedding, and the fact that I was an accident that forced two people's lives together that, as we know now, didn't belong together. Again, even the shady timing of my parents quick marriage and my birth soon after is probably not news to you. 
6. Still, I was born and raised in a large place where my father seemed king of the Castle. I have early memories of him reading the tales and stories of King Arthur, and the next day, he would take me around campus on his shoulders, and to see the way everyone greeted him, I was convinced he was King Arthur, and Harvard was his Camelot. 
7. One of the many other things I've realized in retrospect is that my father's bedtime stories, which was basically the only time I saw him consistently most nights of my childhood, were methods of subtle evangelizing. As I understood it then, he knew everything about the world. I grew up hearing at least 30 versions of the Creation story, from all over the world, in every different niche, and when I grew up asking him which one was true, he would ask me, 'why not all of them?' and I'd say, 'because they don't make sense together,' and then he'd say, 'How odd! Maybe one day, you can solve the mystery, and then tell me!'
8. He was grooming me to be a philosopher, same as him. You all already know his work, and why it mattered, but what was interesting growing up in the house with him was seeing him react to the world changing first-hand. By the time I was entering college, the first Occupy Wall Street had just taken place, and he was down there to converse with organizers and Michael Moore and Cornel West and Slavoj Zizek, and there are famous photos of them all together planning the revolution.
9. Often, I remember him putting down a journal, listening to the radio, rubbing his face gravely, holding his chin like a good philosopher does, and sayign something like, "the leftist movement in America is being stolen. They're splitting it up into politics of identity, instead of uniting around class consciousness."
10. I went into classrooms in college and heard the early conversations among my generation that were being had, about racism and sexism and xenophobia and bigotry, and I parroted my dad's thoughts, with a mix of self-importance, superiority, and at the same time a tremendous pity that they didn't know what I knew, so that it was my job to remind them that the real focus was class warfare, and not these petty fights over race and sex and identity. I quickly found myself demonized in these conversations and written off as a white supremacist, and once someone has pegged you for a white supremacist, most people don't rescind their opinions. I thought the revolution was doomed if these ignorant people would exclude me based on the color of the my skin.
11. I shared my frustrations with my father and he agreed, and he became even more adamant in his outspoken views against the wrong way in which things were going. I watched him come home angrier and angrier every day, claiming that free speech was dying, fascism was slipping deeper into the minds of children every day, and free-thinking critics were being silenced, careers ruined left and right, and he assured us that they were coming for him too.
12. What troubled me was seeing that my mother and my two younger siblings, Cara and Michael, didn't feel bad for him. Mom seemed not to love him anymore, and while I'd never heard them shout at each other growing up, they started shouting and fighting regularly.
13. I started to hear rumors. They were out and about around campus, and I only found out when I walked in on a conversation that shut down as soon as I walked in, everyone knowing I was his son. I finally got someone to spill the beans and tell me what was going on, and my friend told me some things that were being said.
14. Of course I knew immediately that there was already an ongoing effort to displace my father from his platform, and a scandal as was alleged would be the perfect way to cancel him and ruin his career. But, I decided to browse the internet and see what acutally came up about, because it was so hard for anyone to tell me straight to my face. 
15. I read things that made me doubt, both the accusuers, but the itng that made me doubt him was RateMyProfessor.
16. During the fall of senior year, Mom told us she was moving out. Michael & Cara wanted to go with her.  Everyone already knew how the lines were drawn. 
17. The divorce proceeding was long and elabored. Things were fraying within my family drastically. It was during these trying times where my faith in most things was waning. The deeper I read into the human history, the less pleasant it became. One thing that came a lot among the Greek literature was this reverece for a golden age filled with better people, long before. That even back then, even thought this world is largely builton worship of what the Greeks did, they themselves felt like paltry, terrible copies of some original and better progentiors with a magnificent world, a nostalgia for things they'vee never known. If foreward only spelt doom, the only way to go was further and further back into the past. It was at this point, thumbing through an obscure book on arcaheology related to geological records that I found reference to Taru & The Mask. 

