---
description: Brain Storm Maya's Play
---

# Maya's Play

I had a hwole history of this performance and its trajectory, a grand idea meant to involve every creative discipline, at least all the major arts: Film, music, dance, theater, photography, fashion, design. Something so elaborate and huge it can't help ut fall apart etween people getting in fights, not working together any more. I can imagine it eing a thing where Maya has this initial core of an idea, and at the end of this whole rigorous process, the simplest and most basic part of the play is the only thing that survives.

What it is, is her own custom-made dream/ritual that allows her to enact and create her own meaning out of her death. What she wants her death to be. If she's anything like me, she wants to see her father again. Maybe that's it. I think of it also as this place where all her dreams and fantasies, every story she ever loved, they're all there waiting to greet her and welcome her. I think that's really the essence. It's a pagaent just for her, made of all the people and places she grew up loving, the characters, like a royal performance for a princess, each little fantastical world welcoming her, and finally her father, and this invitation opens up, because the play doesn't really end, it just turns into a dance party that everyone int he audience joins, and everyone dances and drinks, and even the police and military see what happen, and they stand down. So people party in the park, it spreads out from there, people camp together, gather resources, go somewhat back to normal. Maria takes Maya back to the hospital, and the sun will rise tomorrow. Maybe not for her, but for the world she loved, yes. The world she loved. I don't need to even end with a positive affirmation, I'll let the actions of life speak for themselves and have their own affect, and simply say that though they lost and lost those they loved and grieved their loss, it was as if with Maya's Play they now knew what will greet them when they die, so they no longer look forward with dread. Again, don't have to say it, as long as I know it's basically been reduced to a version of the nutcracker, a magical parade made of a patchwork of fan fiction and original stories born in her own head, and all the things of this world that she loves. And what of the people she loves? How does she deal with all the things and people she loves leaving her? How does she deal with going off alone? 

Because I imaigne Maya as a very in touch person, I mean while she's a dreamer, her dreams never stand in the face of reality. She lives with the people, who live and die and suffer and never have what they deserve. She has to give to them with her vision a promise that all of the most beautiful things of their dreams will greet them when they die, and it's delivered with total assurance, such that an athiest might be convinced that surely there's a magic, a beautiful opening that happens at the end of our life. Still a lot to think about. 

