---
description: Journal of free-form thinking about Maya as a short story
---

# Brainstorm

5/25/21 --  The Question is  if I want to tell the novel version of Maya in a condensed form, or reconsider the whole scope of the story into something smaller. Because I've done so much work and world building, that I could theoretically word vomit a version of the story if I was telling it to someone, but knowing the form and structure would help immensely. I know I want to start as the writer addressing the reader about the fact that the world was actually already saved by this young woman, and how do I go about it? This could be a real invitiation for me to fall into some sweeping prose, the kind of prose that doesn't need structure because the story is so well known, you can almost think of it as an oral tale, like songs of old. 

However, there's lots of parts of the story that are probably extra, for example, the whole mid part of the day describing the various trials of everyone making everyhtign happen, making this play happen even as the city is going to pieces. The way it happens against all odds. The ways in which all of human history accumulate in a single day. It's a grand and epic story. But as I understand it, there was this play that the sick girl was workign on with her friends, a tumultuous produciton beset by a million obstacles, one that looked like it wouldn't happen, but one that comes to a head, where it must happen if this girl is to get the death she wants and deserves. 

And her mother, fighting to save the world herself, even as it spirals far beyond her control and she fights against being powerless, being a victim, learns how to not be victim. I think I can hint at all the things going on without having to dive into specifics, because it is a story of such sweeping scope. 

It's kindof a ridiculous story, but it's also one I know that does what I want, something that seems to contain everything.

But maybe the city literally crumbling apart is a little much for suspension of disbelief. I think We can imagine an election day that's chaotic and besmirched by the problems that we've already identified, crazy weather events, complete social upheaval, a war in the streets between the masses of working poor and the ultra rich barons, and in the middle of this skirmish, a band of children scrambling to put together an over-elaborate production reduced to rags. The silence that falls over the hushed masses. I can even see the really condensed version that leaves out a lot of the extra information, but still gets the point across. The action across the story, the trajectory, what makes it a story more than an image or a painting, is the characters trying to make something happen and facing doom at every corner. Certain doom. I don't want to offer false hope. Nothing can save Maya from her fate, which is what it comes down to. Nothing can save this world from collapsing. Maria is fighting to keep the city from falling apart, and she goes around doing her best to put bandaids on the gunshot wounds. Her daughter's friends are running around the city gathering friends and resources and supplies, trying to put on a play even as the city is hit by freak hurricanes in the middle of a war for control of the city. And the whole thing is trending downwards. The worst fears are coming true and being realized. Maria will lose the election, the billionaires will win and maintain their false order for another day. But similar to Island, everyone who saw that play will have something to carry them they didn't have before, hopefully the same thing everyone who read the story will have. The inner thing. The unspoken thing, that once the storm clears, and the next day comes, once death has visited,  they will have changed, everything will have changed. 

I think this can work the same way Notre Dame worked, all of the character's lives, all their place in history, all come together in a single day, a single moment. Yeah, I don't think some of the craziness form the fiirst brain storms will work though. I'm not afraid to be alittle over the top and dramatic, but I think there's also a way in which the craziness of the day can be believed as beign very close to home, close to reality. But I don't think Maria has a classic moment with a James Bond villain. Especially if I'm now gearing it towards imagining all the worst outcomes and defeats despite all the battles and struggles. What does that look like in her world? It looks like people out onthe streets, really ready for violence, to tear things down, the police and military getting ready to shoot people down. Then the storm breaks, which delays the battle, scatters it, and causes the whole situation to disperse into chaos. There's immediate government order for people to all get home, at the same time that there are mass arrests, and people sheltering from the storm, power going out, the storm clearing and the battle returning, and honestly i imagine most people giving up. I might not figure it out until I'm in the writing. But I think generally,  I'm going to be less "in" the scenes, not that I'm telling everything as exposition, but that it's that different more omniscient style. It's literally just me telling this story about something that happened, and everything and everyone involved in it, ever, all these thigns cumulating t oa play.

6/3/21 --- I found it really helpful to do Evil Empire broken up to into sections, so what would my sections be? I was using time stamps to give a sense of progress to the day, which I think might still be a helpful tool, what is it in my head at this point?

There's beginning of the day, establishing the characters and their situations: The massacre of homeless down at the park, the flight up to the hospital, the interaction in the hospital the layout of the plan.

There's the early part of the morning, made of the twins beginning to gather the troops, Maria organizing to keep the vote going, and Maya with her uncle.

There's the beginning of the storm sweeping across the city, forcing people into shelter, the kids fighting through that obstacle.

Then, it's really getting things to a cataclysmic point. The city is in the middle of a quasi-revolution, with the military roaming through the city to clamp down on people, and for Maria it's the point of defeat, that her aims to save the city are falling apart, and the kids facing obstacle after obstacle so that they're arriving at the park with a rag-tag assembly of things, and so many people despondent and fearing for their lives. At this point is also Maya's prison break.

THen it's the play happening. And the play leading to the party, and everyone dispersing, and the conclusion of the day. 

So this could really be broken up into 4 sections. I'll have to cut a lot of initial plot points, or portray it in a condensed way. I want to give the impression of the dizziness induced by the scope of all things colliding, and each section also still needs to have a thorough amount of flashback and backtracking to tell everyone's story, to show how they got here. How's the twin's journey going to be revised? Without needing to belabor and over provide details that are unnecessary. 

6/4/21 So, I'm getting the feeling that there's a way for me to tell this whole grand story in a very bird's eye view way, that allows me to get in all this detail in a way that's brief and concise. But it still needs structure, I don't want it to be just a long ramble, and I think it'll pay off to re-strategize the trajectory point by point. It's almost like i want to present the condensed situation, and so interesting and engaging to the reader it would be, that I'd then go into details as they're brought up, which would beg more questions, until it leads them all the way around. It's like how I start off by saying, "I saw someone get stabbed." and then everyone wants to know, "What happened?" And then I say, "Well, I was just getting off of work, minding by business, it was a regular day, _then_...."

6/5/21 A note I want to keep in mind: the crisis of this current generation, standing on the brink of all humanitites triumphs and sins, reckoning with the end, with our destruction and collapse, all of history bearing down on our shoulders in a way other generaitons of huans never considered.But a asense of consequence weighs heavy on my generation the way it never has before in history, and what's the occasion we're rising to? simply to save us from ourselves. Probably won't happen without great chaos. That's honestly the sexy thing tom imagine, wiping the slate clean and savin ghte future by controlling it. THe less sexy alternative is things changing in this haphazard way that reminds us we're only hal fin control.

So I like the idea of starting by describing the story in brief, so that I've set up something to deliver on, and then the point is people being engaged enough to go on the journey  of following these people throughout their day. But still, to tell that story in a structured way. And I'm pretty much creating a fictional reality, not even bothering with the actual state of the world, more just creating a current dystopia filled with everyone's nightmares, mentioned casually and in passing, from a distance. But still, what's the structure, in a way where each part follows the next? especially since I think part of my ambition now is to have it be as unbroken as possible, structured in a way where the structure is hidden and not as explicit as having different parts. To start with telling how the world was saved, starting witht he most essential facts and branching out from there, one part by one.

6/7/21 I see I structured it up into 3 sections, which might be appropriate. I can still apply my stylistic idea of telling what's happening, interweave it with the past, and bring things to their necessary action.

1st section: Prelude, just me explaining what happened on this day in broad strokes, describing what kind of day it is, short seciton, maybe 1 or 2 pages. 

ATLANTIS: this is our set-up intro section, which includes Jordan's flight from chaos, arriving at the hospital, getting the whole mission statement and set up, getting a sense of everyone's relationships the things going on, and then the call to action for all involved.

THE STORM: the largest section obviously, very simply portrayed as the riots in the streets, the various interests in this battle for the city, the storm breaking, poewr going off, and how everyone deals with it. IN Maria's story, she is being this bad-ass leader, someone we'd want to save the city, someone we'd want to be our mayor, to win, someone who is literally playign che guevara in a fuge-like war against the elite pweor apparatus, but ultimately losing that battle a s thigns happen beyond her control. We're clued in to her whole life, what made the person with the the big heart, damaged and hurt so many times, al the anger, the agression, the inability to let go, the pain the pain the pain.

Then there's the twins, gathering their friends around the city, scattering for supplies and bodies, sounding out the call, going to extreme lengths and fighting obstacles of their own, and their lives and histories, facing the future like everyone else is.

THen There's Maya and Eddie, chilling in the hospital, taking it easy, but preparing for their own prison break, which is the climax of that section.

MAYA's PLAY : Will also be shorter, second in length. The calm after the storm. Things are still very bad, but this is like the point of no hope, where everythign is lost, the elites have won control, everyone is jsut going ot go back to carrying on for another day, give up fighting, except for these stubborn kids, putting on a play, and all these random people who have just been through hell, and they catch on that they're trying to do something for this sick and dying girl. Then everyone comes together to watch this thing happen. And people break out into a celebration, a quiet one, because the storm has passed, and much has been lost, and thigns keep changing, but, there's something, something else going on, after you've lost everything, there's still something. Like a space has cleared for something new, something no one can foretell, an anomoly to all, even to God, and all are still watching in anticipation. SO yeah I have this story, it's just about starting to write it, one sentance at a time. 



6/8/21 The biggest challenge will be the middle section, because I know the kinds of things I want to happen, just not exactly, though there are lots of ambient ideas floating around. I know the kind of journey the kids will be on, the ways in which it'll clue people in to the past year and all the struggles, the theme for them being that they're the generation inheriting a future that looks so bleak, as if they have no future, and yet for Maya's sake, here they all are together, doing the ridiculous and possible, out of love, and all the pettiest parts of life dropped to the side as they band together in the purest way possible. For Maria, it's this similar thing where all the events of the day reflect on her life, coming from nothing, wanting to feel in control, wanting to feel power in her life, even as every day, life has done nothing but take things from her. I think now, her heart has to be pure, as in, she has been tortured and her collapse can be fully justified especially as someone who has been doing the work as well as anyone could, and to still see it be entirely out of her control. This is the final straw of things slipping from her fingers. BUt how does she go from City hall riots and find her way up to Sloan Kettering? At some point, it must be that she realizes once the power is out across the city, it's ourt at Sloan kettering. Once she realizes the fate of the city and the world is entirely out of her control, she knows she has to go face and deal with her daughter. I imagine her wandering away from a battle scene, and probably finding a bicycle somewhere that she's just going to ride all the way up town, first to the hospital, then, either she realizes she's gone and then deducts where she msut be, or she somehow realized what would be happening and finds her way to Bethesda Fountain. 

And Maya? We get the picture of Maya's life, her own feeling similar to mine. Her uncle. Hers is maybe seeing herself and the city as one. That might be a theme of her section, of seeing the whole city as an extention of her own self and body, the whole world as such. And her having arrived at this kind of mystical place, so totally herself, this product of everything, and of course still obviously really terrified to die, clinging and clinging to this dream, tunnel vision on the light at the end of the tunnel. 

Having themes to guide each of these story lines turns them into something that guides me in my narrative, something so that I can weave in and out of scenes, flashbacks, inner monologues or stories, all pointing towards one thing I'll say more or less explicitly, through the action of the story.



8/16 -- new thoughts and new direction: we're going to market and go for it as a YA dystopian novel, set in the near future, maybe 2030, a little later? We're going to build a version of NY that's based on all our worst nightmares. This is a book that shouldn't speak down to its young adult audience. THese kids are different than any kids that came before. It's a book of hope and resilience, and it needs to be believable given the circumstances. We'll follow the action of one insane day, fill in the blanks of history as we go. It's focus is on the younger kids, who are still kids at the end of the day. truth is, kids are living in such a different world from the one I grew up in, a worse world, also one where they are much more clever, and have grown up in this different mode of communication-- and we're imagining a future where all these horrors carry on around us and we battle becoming numb to it, so there's this mixture of black humor, nihilism, absurdity, jadedness, and ultimately still a beating heart. Because there's a way to tell this story that's not patronizing, that earnestly and honestly speaks to the anxiety I think people of all ages are haivng, but espescially young people. And the book is now called "Maya's Play" except Maya saves New York was definitely more provocative.  But what's going to make some young person pick it up? Because right now it's too close to home to be excapist.  Unless we want to make it even more far away in time, 2050, and imaginge the terrible situation-- But I think not. Why no honor my original premise? These terrible things are happening right now, and it's not going well, and what we see is how everyone responds to it. What they're holding onto is making the dream of their friend come true. I"m almost feeling a WWII kind of vibe, noy nuelle, just a story that's a reminder of the human spirit, because we're faced with such darkness and despair. 

There's a line, a tone to walk here. It's a story that has to take itself seriously, and it has to mainly be through the eyes of young people. Maybe we see less of things from Maria's side. She can be an important character, like atticus finch, someone who matters a lot to Maya and the gang, but someone who we see through the eyes of the child, one we admire, one we want to live up to, but also live in fear of, and maybe we've seen through them over the years into her flaws,  so there's a lot to come to terms with. But the narrative has to follow this gang of kids. 

But can I also do this in an adult way? Can I pitch this as literary fiction in line with holocaust stories? An attempt to do stories about like in a deep darkness? I think I can. So don't worry about YA dystopian, selling it to publishers. I know the angle. we're going for the same angle joyous rebellion and resistence that is resonating with people right now. I've really just got to trust the story. It's a day that starts with homelessness being brutalized, that turns into mayhem and chaos in the streets, on top of a environmental disaster, all signs that would make one believe the world was going to end today. It's something that  would play into the absurdity, the sadness, the contradiction, all the problems of the world as they make themselves apparent in the very struacture of NYC; as well, all the beauty on every corner, all the human history, all the ways in which Maya is this place, how they all are this place. ive just gotta trust the story to let it tell itself. I know what makes stories good, what makes a novel good. I know how to take this idea i have in my mind how to taell a story simply directly and interestingly--humanly. 

Don't worry about existing inside a genre-- let life breathe. You've lived in this city for 5 years now, your whole young life. I do feel like I need to pivot back to this story and let myself explode all over it. But what stops me? Do I need to rewrite or reconsider story points, or how I approach it? It's I think just about getting more specific and less abstract. Specific things happen, and they happen for specific reasons--how the siblings relate, how all the kids relate,  so on and so forth. Maybe I do need ot put it at the end of the decade just so I can take more control of the situation, define the landscape. NYC continues to be a bastion of wealth, all while the working people of the city are crippled left behind, and increasingly homeless. The city is definitely in worse shape, but wild in a way it hasn't been in a long time. Tech companies rule the city and commerce, they've gone full brave new world with the hynoptic entertainment,  the tech mind control, so on. I think the whole thing is abundle of contradictions, universes next to universes, all colliding. IS there any reason I can't include my prophecy in here? Or make Maya's play the prophecy? the wondorus, fantastic, nerdy dream of a child? and what is this prophecy? What does this moment look like?

I keep running into walls with this, which means I should just write it. I was hoping to make some kind of abstract progress, but i've actually found myself reorienting towards the initial pitch. which is fine, bottom line with all of this is to just write something bad first, I'm probably not going to think it through and write it perfectly the first time. ANd i"ve already recalled at least all the themes i'm keeping in mind, but it's one thing to have themes and another thing to actually have a story with plots and characters and stories, and ultimately the challenge of a gorup of kids to make their dreams come true in the middle of an apocalypse in NYC

