# Brainstorming

6/25/21 -- One goal of this story is to present an idea: Death is not actually a subjective event that occurs localized when a living thing ceases vital functions. Probably that story has some kind of scientist exploring what exactly the phenomena of death is in objective and scientific terms. Combined with this is also a speculation on Ray Kurzweil's Singularity premise.

And what's really interesting to me in all of this is to view death as a singular event, so that everyone that dies actually dies simultaneously. It would be contending that time is a certain kind of illusion, where in people are born and die, and it is somethign that happens over and over again and is somethign living things go through as an individual experience. And my contention is that is an illusion, and the objective reality is that Death is really  singularity event, where all time, where was no more than a subjective phenomena, everythign merges. And the fun of story-telling was to jump all across time, and to put myself into the deaths of many different kinds of people. I even imagined it's the same moment of enlightenment for every guru across time. But what comes to my head is just imagining that convergence as just being the beginning of everythign all over again which is a little blase, and that's why I hooked onto the grief aspect as the heart that actually makes this unique and individual to me. 

Because on a philosophical level, this story is about a desire for closure, a desire for reconciliation, for justice. And really, it has to be about one main character who's grieving the people they miss and mourn. 

I can imagine the story. Maybe it's not even a lover, but it's the kind of person who you have such a deep, loving bond with it feels like soul mates, like no distance or time can destroy it. And when that person struggles, and they leave. What's personal for me is to imagine this is a death experienced early in life. It's the pain of someone who was supposed to be with you for the whole ride and left far too soon, such that you spend msot of your time relating to someone who's absent. In that sense, a parent makes the most sense. That's what I know it is for me. But, I've also lost many people that were corner stones of the early part of my life, and that's a big part of it, too. Lost friends, lost family, so many people that you love, and to know you're going to go where they went. And the question is are they actually there? IS anyone there? It depends on who you talk to. Some people just get ready for the cold endless silence of nothing, others pray and dream of being reunited, and I certainly dream of being reunited like most people do. 

And this scientist, I can't imagine he's so wholly bent on solving death, because that feels a little cornball. But whether they're a scientist studying death, or some other computing engineer who's anticipating singularity, it's pretty hare-brained. I want the sense of wonder, and I need to figure out the world where it makes sense for someone to put forward this crazy hypothesis about death. And I think the story can't say definitely obviously that this is true, but it's the fun of showing this scientist discovering and putting forward and explaining his theory, and us coming to understand his grief, and all around that is this imagining of: if this hypothesis were true, then what woudl that look like? TO take seriously the reality of every person who's ever died to all arrive at that moment at once. I enjoyed a few of the threads I picked out, the thieves crucified with Jesus, Tutenkamun obviously. And more than contemplating and meditating on the moment of death as many people experience it, there's also the fact that How people die is what matters. It's all the lead up to the moment. Because of course this view of death is some great equalizer, but won't have any weight if we don't take the time to care about people and their troubles. 

So the main thread of the story would be this scientist who's doing some kind of work, which i'd need to specify, but it's causing him to consider new models and propose a new theory. The original version with story with Devon was kind of interesting but also flat, it's just a guy obsessed with transcendence in a relationship that's falling apart.  I don't think that's the best angle here. I do think his is the furthest down the timeline, maybe it's this kind of thing where it's the survivor problem, where he's at the end of the line, most of the people he's loved have died. At the same time, again, what's as honest and authentic to me as possible about all this? Being someone maybe in the middle of their life, someone who's left a good part of their life without people that were essential at the roots of it. 

This could be a very simple story about someone who misses his lvoed ones and is plagued by the thought of never seeing them again, which is part of what drives his work and his theory. Part of me also feels like this scientist has a certain zen quality, a zen melancholy, which is how i'd consider it for myself. I feel as if they shouldn't be looking for it, this new nypothesis, it's like they were going about their work, going about their life, and it presented itself to them, and once the conclusions were teased out, it becomes this thought that is too tempting, something our hearts our too vulnerable to trust. This feels more right to me. So that might be the angle. And around this narrative, I can see a handful of other people across the seas of time, writing their last will and testament, desperate scrawlings, trying to leave traces of themselves before the brink of the mystery. That's an interesting angle in general, to treat it as a collection of a few different people's experience of the end coming, and their whole view of what the event is is totally framed by the kind of life they've lived. I thought at first it might be 3rd person accounts, which in some ways I like better because I find myself more affectionate about the characters that way. THe other concern is do we have to treat it as if these are actual writings by people, or could they just be slices of inner monologue and narration at a relevant time? I guess it depends on the kidn of characters we imagine.

So we have a scientist named Joelle, and she's the relatively cool head in this mosaic story. We start with her, we engage with her int he middle, and we end with her. She's the one at the end of time and history, is a quietly dying world, lonely,  going about research, jsut trying to live out days very simply, when research leads her to certain conclusions, or at least possibilities about what the phenomena of death actually is in some kidn of mind-boggling science-y way. She's in a similar world to DEvan, one where technology has become dominant, the tech singularity people talked about does seem more and mroe immanent by the day, but it doesn't feel very meaningful or significant. Joelle at this point gets most of her joy from memories, things and people that already happened long ago. 

Around Joelle's discovery is a collection of different people across the illusory ocean of time who are facing the spectre of death and treating it in various different ways. There must be the person who is staunchly materialist and nihilist, someone who just anticipates the quality-less not-being, to even have such a thought would require them being modern, mid 20th century, a scientist and a nihilist, an atheist. Christopher Hitchens. Someone who thinks of themselves as a realist but really just has their own preferred comforting fantasy, thought that's obvoiusly someone else's greatest fear.

There's got to also be a person who imagines the CHristian heaven, the host of angels. I think Tutenkamun's experience of death is still a super interesting one, and the Egyptian afterlife is absolutely worth keeping here. There's the deaths that are "natural" and the deaths that are "unnatural' and the ones that are intentional. There's the suicide.

ANd that can be part of it, these other people are the people who Joelle has lost. The friend who commited suicide, the parents who died of cancer, the family who died by accident, the people murdered. So, to draw out the threads of these stories will take some time, but I have to imagine this could be 6,000-8,000 words. It's all written by Joelle as if it's already happened and she's relating all of it to whoever's wiling to listen. Her quiet, sad life, the research, the reminiscences, then the call to action as the discovery that challenges her to crack into one of the biggest mysteries of human existence. Could it be an immortallity hack? Because if death were only physical and material, than theoretically death could be defeated, which could be an interesting thing for Joelle to grapple with as well. But this theory of mine would claim that our consciousness and matter are the same thing. It'd be showing that subjective states and objective states are really the same thing, all mind is matter. Not a new thought but hard to yet prove. So we'll postulate that Joelle is somehow on the cusp on providing a theory to fit this. 

The conclusions are fascinating. Because if all mental and subjective states were inextricably part of the fabric of physical reality, which we could measure, 

--okay, what's coming to my head now is that everyone has a different vantage on witnessing and being the same event, but this lends itself to the time going faster and faster and faster thing, so that leading up to that final moment would be like jumping to warp speed in sci-fi, light bending into a tunnell as you yourself become all light being sucked into to a singel super dense point.

--so part of what Joelle is observing is this strange but exponential speed of change, and all of these convergences. She's witnessing the blue shift across the microwave background. She's observing the universe collapse rapidly, And it's causing her experience of time to increase rapidly, like she's seeing herself die very quickly. Hmm, not quite, but close. Because theoretically the law of entropy would say that all the energy dissipates into increasing chaos, it's an exhalation. But I'm trying to make a case for an objective physical phenomena, wherein all the matter and energy of the universe is condensing. The thing about red shift, all things moving away from each other, is that's what creates the arrow of time. In a blue shift, theoretically everyhtign would play itself back in reverse, which isn't exactly what I'm saying. It's an interesting consideration, because if this is true, then the final exhalatin of all breath also represents the moment the universe begins to crunch back on itself.

That's an interesting idea, but what I'm considering is an image wherein everyone's arrival to death is a kind of big brunch. That's what I want to hypothesize.

At the end of the story, we won't actualy try to claim thi sis what's happening-- the more important thing is to tell a story about someone in greif, and the desire for reunion. It's the way death feels so lonely, and I want to create the opposite feeling, instead of feeling that death is lonely and pulls things apart, it actually brings things together. That's the take-away. And while we can have a few differnet people going through it, or about to go through it, and it's like a reverse fibbonnacci sequence, spiraling and tightening in. Except for Joelle, who's not there yet. But we'll seee these different people going through it, the moment of death approaching, and the closer they get, the closer they literally get, everything speeding up, so that no matter where you are in time, the closer you get to the convergence the more it all starts to look the same. People imagine death as a dissolving, as the entropy bit of desintegrating into nothign, and don't consider the opposite, that death is the experience of infinite expansion, where the horizon of your being seems to be be stuff witht universe in such a quick interval, that every person explodes open.

In this view of the universe and death, seeing them as a single indistinguishable substance and fabric, death is a singular event horizon operating just like a black hole, pulling in all matter and energy towards it. It means that the moment of all deaths becomes this rapid time dilation, a great zoom, and the experience which again we perceive as a great crushing force, is also something of an explosion. 

This will be interesting to follow through and try out as long as we remember that it's ultimately about people living lives, dealing with grief, mourning, loss, with the fact that we lost the things we care about, and would desire to be reunite with those people. 

Joelle is a little older, and she's lonely, and she's lost most of the people she's loved in her life, and lost them in many different ways. Suicide, drug overdose, murder, disease. She lives a quiet life as a kind of scientist. I'm thinking right now shes going to start noticing a string of strange phenomenon, things that conflate objective observational and mathematic data and her own subjective experiecne. THe observations have to do with time dilation, specifically time seeming to move exponentially faster, as well as physical data that seems to indicate that the universe is going through a contraction. At the same time, her health is being affected. 

This is a hard sell. I know a few of these things don't gel together considering certian science models that still hold up. Because I also don't know when or if the unvierse will ever crunch. Again, what's my essence here? to make it so the subjective experience of death is actually a singular objective event. that's all i'm trying to do. Everyone dies at once, and it's like this simultaneous arrival, the wrapping up of all loose ends. That's all i'm trying to prove. And it should be a grand a glorious moment. But it's a moment we only see from the vantage of all those Joelle has already loved and lost. I want in the story for her to just sit with this conclusion of research, contemplating that she will arrive to this grand explosion with everyone she loves. Sit with that. SHe may not like it. She might've preferred heaven and clouds and eternal life or a perfect day dream. But instead, the reality is going to be this soul processing meshing machine. The alternative with a tech singularity is that super intelligence already re-simulated some original universe, and that after such an event horizon, of course every person would be an infinite reality of infinite possibilitites. nto here though.

7/1 the trick with the singularity story is that her life seems to whizzing by her, we take advantageof he fact life seems to go by exponentially faster as time goes by. Also, while she's odler and she has many loved one who have passed and lots of people to grieve, it isn't that she's totally alone, and she probably has a late in life relationship that she has this wierd feeling about like she doesnt want to go all the way in on it because of her experience of loss. 

So, I'm going to be owkring on Taru & the Mask, adn really it'll just be about fleshing out the memoir part, the biggest part, this guy tlakign about his life under his dad's tutleage, the image of the world he came to understand, the signs of turbluence, things getting worse once he gets into college and he starts meeting people who his dad thinks are wrong about certain things in the world, the increasing tension.scandals, his dad's career careening, getting canceled from speaking, allgeations, people comign forward againts him, dad ultimately getting fired, his parents getting divorced, generally losing his sense of guidance. THen the play, the decision to leave academia, to do what, he knows not. Maybe he should declare where he's going to put his time. Into organizing, into the kind of work the world really needs. 

Taru, KFC. THe Party, Alien Utopia,  theere's a series of what i'd consider more Lit Fic stories. 



TO restate, my objective is to tell a story about about how everyone's experience of death is actually simultaneous. Probably the biggest head scratcher with this would be how you have the whole sequence of time where people are born and die in such overlapping intervals. Like a spiritual perspective would that there's an eternal soul we're all part of that, and that soul enters the world to be born, take on a life, then dies, and that's the reincarnation angle, which would still be the case in this model, like everyone converges at the tunnel together, becomes one, and then bursts apart to become separate so we can love each other. That's maybe a possibility Joelle can consider. But evidence still has to be towards first finding proof that the fabric of physical matter and what we call subjective experience are the same thing, all one field of energy, this is the Spinoza theory. In addition, she would have to make an example of her own life, of how time is dilating, about how her whole experience of time is speeding and speeding up to such a point. How would a scientist arrive at the conclusion that all matter is converging to a single point, that everyone experiences as the moment of death in their lives? Because even though everyone lives and dies seemingly on their own timeline and objective time moves at its own pace we have to create a compelling argument that's an illusion. Make it make sense that even though you watched your loved ones die before your eyes and think that's separate fomr the moment your death approaches, you actually see when you're in the process of dying that you and everyone else who die are all falling in to the same black hole. 



So, Joelle is an older scientist woman, can't e too much older because I can't speak to what old age is like. But I can speak to maybe living a life where time moves very quickly, each new day means less, and we end up spending a lot of time thinking about the past and things that have already happened, people who she misses. And there's this whole theme of being connected to people, because for me this is a story about grief, mourning, loss, and really just the simple desire to be reunited with people you miss.

So this is someone who's lost a lot of people. Part of me wishes I could speak more to the experience of a refugee, a warrior, someone who's seen shit in that way. Most of the deaths in my life are mundane suburban deaths. But still, there are so many different deaths, so many different ways to go about it.

I think there's obviously here parents passing, aunts and uncle and family. But there's also a suicide, a dear friend who took their life. I think there's a partner. There's more than a handful of people in her life. But for the sake of brevity, I should pick just a few. Deaths of sickness are easy. You're laying in a bed then go into the tunnel. It's the sudden deaths that are tricky. And think about your own life, that's the way it's more real. I think about the teenager who commits suicide by wlaking on the train tracks, imagining what's in their head. 

I'm imagining something creepy like one of her parents seeing the light at the end of the tunnel and seeing her there, so that's one of ways we get this weird time thing, where Joelle's mom says like, "I see you there already, waving at me." For some reason I feel like Joelle needs to not be some obsessive person, probably the opposite, she's someone who is trying very much to just live in a happy little box for herself, but truth is bearing down on her.  What part of me is Joelle? she is the one who misses people immensely, so many people she's loved who've gone, but something about their deaths feels like abstractions. I think she's trying to avoid this reunion, even if she partially has always wanted it.

FOr me, this version of death represents some kind of solace, some great reunification with loved ones, and it's obviously very spiritual and large and connected, and Joelle isn't pursuing it, it's not a desire of hers. I think her thing is just peace. She just wants to carry on in peace and contentment. At the same time, she's a sad person who's outlived most of the people she's loved. I think there's got to be some anxiety for her about the whole religious quesiton. I think she's lost a lot of people, but she's never truly felt like she knows what's going on. And as a scientist she's hesitant to throw her chips of belief in any one particular hat. She probably doesn't even care so much about religion, or God, or ultimate stuff like that. She just is sad that she's spent her life loving so many people and watching them all go away and disappear and wondering if she'll ever see them again. That's probably the thign she hates the most, the idea of never seeing people again. That's the thing that is driving her. She's in this later stage of life, very quiet and to herself, and she's getting to meet new people, people who want to love her, and make something out of this later part of life, but she's holding back, because meeting more people and falling in love and caring for more people just also means more people to lose.

So we've got a quiet lonely old scientist who's watching days slip by more and more quickly, subtly at first, but with increasing speed. But she meets someone, against her own wishes, and it's through this late in life romantic interest that we're learning about all this grief and loss she's carrying with her. Vignetted throughout that is the experience of all these people she's lost, what it's like for them as they're dying and all converging. 

Part 1\) Meet Joelle, the scientist, studying something to do with astrophysics and astronomy, something normally boring. And she meets someone who expresses interest in her, and through this meeting we get the sense of Joelle's life, the people she's lost, and why she's closed off, thinking about the past all the time.  Vignettes introducing the people in her life in the moments leading up to their deaths

Part 2\) Joelle is finding this disturbing data coinciding with dilated experience of time, news that she's sick, and this new person in her life wants to be there for her and she wants to push them away. More vignettes of the people that hint at what's happening

Part 3\) Joelle finally pieces together what's happening: death is the subjective experience of an objective singularity. She is opening herself up to this late in life love. All the vignettes converge together.

I actually could see this taking place over a longer strech of life. It could start with Joelle at the beginnign of her career, really early on in the process of grief, really see someone go through their life having lost people early on, watch them lose more people. 

Scientifically speaking, we need to make a case for Joelle makign this whackado scientific claim and somehow not be contriving for it to happen, even though I as a storyteller am trying to contrive this to be believable.

And again the speculation is: Mind & Matter are proven to be of the same substance, much speculation already to that effect. Perhaps other work in experimental physics, string theory, extra-dimensional work. Right now the law of entropy says that eventually all energy will dissipate. Another theory says there will be great crunch, which would have time running in reverse, and put everything in a loop. What I want to suggest is a whole new model where if matter and mind are the same, and we all have this experience of time going faster and faster as we get older, that the subjective phenomena of death, in all its forms, is actually an objective event horizon. From what I understand of black holes, they are points of infinte density, such that gravity's effect is so strong that all things of matter sink into it. And what it is things are being sucked up into is higher dimensions, like as Moore says, this world folds up into higher dimensions and so on. So the subjective experience of death is the objective experience of an event horizon in which all matter condenses and folds up into a higher dimension.

The issue here will be inventing bogus science to make sense out of all of this. But let's think about those three people, because it really shouldn't exceed that without it begging bogged down. She's got a dead parent, or dead parents. She's got a best friend who died young.

How was it with me? I lost my mom, then my grandparents, then my uncle, then my dad. More people all the time. Papa mel's case woul dbe an interesting thing to portray, with him pulling the trigger and his brains splattering and how to describe his head exploding being also part of the whole fabirc of the universe sinking into a point of infinite density.

I should consider why this seems so hard to articulate, or to prove possible. What would be the non-sciency way I demonstrate this, what woudl I even say? I just imagine what if when I die, the world goes with me? I admit it seems too unbelievable, that it might be a strech for readers. It's interesting enough to make sense of the idea that death is something that happens all at once, whether the means for understanding that is scientific or spiritual. Just to propose that everyone arrives at the point of death at once is interesting. yeah, I still like the idea and don't want to ditch it, I think there's a way I can portray it.

No I'm reverting back. It's all from this later point in her life where she's a formed human being who seems to have al these mysteries inside her, things she's hiding. And we have these vignettes of the people that Joelle lost, seeing Joelle from that young perspective, what kind of kid she was, what kind of relationship they had. The next part being the Joelle finding the interesting phenomena, the diagnosis, and the relationship with the new person evolving. More vignettes, then final vignette where Joelle comes up with the theory, has the new person by her side, and all the vignettes come together in a big, cosmic crunch. 

But again, who are the people and what are the relationships? I think there's a mother, who tripped her out by saying she saw Joelle already there on the other side. I think she loves her mom, but like me, feels like she's now dying before she even really gets to know her better. 

I think there's a best friend who struggles with depression, and she does everything she can to keep him in the world, but she ultimately can't help him. 

The third one has to be a spouse, a partner, and maybe they were murdered. Because there's many ways to die and we need to cover at least a few of the ways so that people can get a full portrait of what it's like for all these stories to converge. And to make all these stories converge at once will be a task. What it's like for me to e dying at the same time that Jimi Hendrix is, even though he died long before I was born. It's as if all lives are really one life, expanding and contracting to completion. That'll be my attempt to make convincing. Mom dying of cancer, best friend kills themself by train, and a partner gets murdered. 

& Joelle is suffering from a disease, maybe a rapid onset dementia, or something else? Her experience is of rapidly passing time, like time passes faster and faster and she moves slower and slower, and her experience of life seems to feel like it's slipping by her more and mroe quickly, but then everyone else who was on the brink of death would have tohave this feeling of rapid time dilation, which I don't think they do in reality. 

And who's the new love, platonic or romantic, maybe a little ambiguous and undefined? I can't tell what they look like yet. I could see them being a younger woman, mid 30's maybe even closer to 40, and Joelle is maybe in her late 50s or early sixties, so it's perfectly possible these two people could fall into some kind of strange relationship, and maybe there's nothign really erotic or sexual in it, maybe there's a flirtation with that. But so it's a mother, it's a best friend, it's a spouse, and then this new person who will be at her bedside when she passes, and she will somehow see all these people falling into the tunnel, beign crunched up together.

And it might be as with an event horizon, or the very purpose of a singularity is to simply propose a point at which we cannot see beyond. 

This concept is very heady and will take some work to figure out how to best portray. Right now, I am picturing something I like, which is an unimaginable warping of the spacetime fabric, time and reality bending, it's like high above you in front of you, you see the black dot that goes bigger and bigger, and your reality warps and bends into a tunnel around it, and the flow of time speeds up. But this black hole is your consciousness so it's also this feeling of the whole universe folding up into you. And what I'm aiming for some part of that experience which happens in the blink of an eye, but in the moments that can't even be measured, you see everyone else converge, the last horrible or beautiful moments, until it all converges onto that moment when the light goes out. That's the vision I have now. That may no be the final vision. Something about it persists to me. If I can propose an alternate vision for this singularity of death, I'll go for it, but right now this is the strongest vision. And a real mind fuck. That everyone dies at once. That in fact, no one dies alone, and it's actually like the ultimate reunion before an event horizon beyond which nobody can see, and there is no one there to see it. I had imagined alternatively among the various dilations and inversions that part of this experience rather than beign a crunch could also be like a kind of bang and explosion in itself. Like everythign crunches into the black hole, and it's a worm hole to the other side of a another collision. I just want to tell a story about death as a great convergence of all matter and energy, and this being a pleasant fantasy or speculation in the face of grief and mourning. Another story might be something that doesnt' try to make such a sublime vent happen on the page, but just to spculate about it, and let it focus on the story of a woman who misses people and wonders if she'll ever see them again, lives with what it's like to never see people again. In this sotry, I'm going to enjoy dreaming and speculating that the event which seems to tear us away from people we love properly understoods actually brings us closer together. 



One of the things I want to show is that Joelle is someone who has come to grips with a sad picture of the universe, everything and everyone inevtiably falling away and desintegrating to nothing. You get to know people and then you just lose them, and that's it. That's what the evidence has been for most of her career.

How would she come across this new theory? including dark matter and energy as this anomolous thign that makes up most of the universe, I think the way to make sense of it is to show its activity is anomolous, doesn't fit in with standard models of baryonic matter. It seems alive, with patterns more like climate and weather. Yet, it must point to an inevitable conclusion of convergence.

How would I make sense of my own fantasy in at least semi-scientific terms? I would claim that Matter energy and consciousness are all aspects of one thing, most specifically consciousness and matter are the same thing which has long been the spiritual contention. My spiritual experience has inclined me to this idea that all lives do this thing where they're born and then they all die, so every conscious experience has tended toward this same end.  I'd have to prove or reasonably conjecture a few points: Matter and consciousness are the same; experience of time is subjective and objective; the phenomena of time speeding up over time corroborates with what it's like when light and matter and spacetime itself is sucked into a supermassive black hole. 

Dark Matter & energy are somehow aspects of this.

I can make the reality of the world whatever I want, it's left to the scientist to make sense of this data and theorize about it. This conclusion is something that Joelle wants to resist, ut being a scientist forces her to obey what they data says, what a rigorous scientific approach would have her get behind. If this were to make sense for every single human experience, so that even when we witness the deaths of others, and then go on and live our own lives, when the moment comes for us, whether it appears to take a long time or happen in an instant, it is the same moment.

So imagine a blub, with two points. at the bottom, we have the fury of the big bang, the wild and energetic frenzy of every living thing being born. It expands until it begins to contract. Imagine all of time as a circle, and each immeasureable point on the ring is someone's experience of life, all sentient beings on the same wavelenght, regardless of time. 

I want to lend scientific credence and understanding to all this, but perhaps part of what I have to work with is to go ahead and posit all the unknowns of science, and let scientists grapple with things they're trying to understand but can't. I don't want to abandon attempting a scientific explanation of my theory, but it'll probably involve things real scientists wouldn't take seriously. That's fine, as long as I have enought o work with.

So she's working on observing dark matter and energy. She's observing it behave oddly, in ways that synchronous with her own life, ways that make her uncomfortable where there are days that seem faster or slower, and she finds readings of expansion or contraction in the measurement data that feel uncanny. She also watches day by day as her own life seems to go by faster and faster, and the dark matter and energy continues to send all the baryonic matter in the universe farther and father away from each other-- maybe to a point. Maybe she starts observing a contraction--no, contraction isn't right, it's not like time is reversing, time is speeding up, and in the subjective experience, you are sprialing in closer and closer to this event horizon in space time and in your life. SO we have to imagine some kind of inversion, where when every person dies, at they same time they witness the death of the universe, and by death, we're really referring to all the matter and energy in the universe being sucked together into a point of infinite density. 

Joelle might get her first clue soon after meeting Rose, but she's still resistant to the conclusions, to the mystery, because her whole life has been in some way defined by entropy, all systems of energy falling into greater and greater disorder until they dissipate into nothing. That's the picture they had of the universe. How might that picture be proven to be wrong? Entropy is undeniable. Maybe  then there's a lack of understanding or a misunderstanding of what entropy is, particularly as it applies to death. 

And is this getting too complicated? Maybe Joelle doesn't propose the theory, or maybe she does halfway through her life but the rest of the science world doesnt' catch up with her until she's older and dying, and they start finding all the evidence of this event-- but it doesn't happen in linear spacetime, that's a model that only works with fewer dimensions. Because within the scope of current physical models, it still looks like the universe will be around for trillions of years beyond us, and expand away form itself forever. But that's just the current model. A new model would have to demonstrate this kind of convergence. As if the whole universe is in fact bounded, in ways that affirm all the old and ancient ways, particulalry hindu comsology that talk about the universal cycle, which I think we'll see here, and we should hold to. 

Just to entertain the idea, what's really necessary to tell this story? Wouldn't it be enough to just have a scientist who deals with grief most of her life in this very cold and scientific way and is reconciled to having people in her life and knowing that all we're ever going to do is fall away from each other? Then let it be the surprise when the event of death reveals this black hole singularity convergence of all things. Maybe the theory is not her own, but one she keeps hearing about and she resists. No, I think it should be her own life experience that's drawing her to these crazy ideas. I think probably its work she won't even bother to put forward for peer review, just something she works out for herself, Because the framework of the theory-- this theory also needs a name, which could just be Singularity Theory, is about a new model of physics basically that represents the shape of the universe and space time as something like a fruit, a toroidal shape, take your pick which one. Space, time, matter, and energy as we know it, Einstein's model of physics is like the skin of a fruit, the outermost extremity. the dark matter and energy is the meat of the fruit. What we're experiencing in the rapid acceleration of all thigns in the universe away from each other  is jsut a trick for hte moment, we're still so early on in history of the universe, as if we still haven't reach the full circumference of the apple. What we will observe eventually is the largest circumference, and form there, the circumference will shrink and shrink and all converge at the stem, the core. This is a model of the universe that is static, when viewed from higher dimensions it's like a complete and total thing, from lower dimensions, we experience the process of life and death as what renders this total object, but it's all there at once. 

So, yeah, the trafalmadoran model holds here, because if I'm looking at death as this cosmic guiding principle that brings all things into an according reunion, that would also imply a lack of free will and subject to fate. Even though in this other analysis they make the point that our linear experience of time does actually afford us free will and significance in that matter, this isn't even the heart of what I'm interested in. I'm interested most in telling a story of grief, where we are forced to deal with losing people we love and never seeing them again, what it means for the stakes we have in relationships, the unbearable lightness of being, in some ways. I am most interested in observing a person who is learning how to love even in the face of a sad picture of what dying means, and that warm and special treat that comes from discovering or entertaining that we might find the distance between those we love and love in life in fact does receive a consecration. But we can't earn that lovely reward unless we first grapple with a universe and a life where we love people we are doomed to lose forever, and learning to make the choice anyway. 

Because that's what I'm dealing with anyway, right? The fact there are so many people I have loved and lost and it's a hard thing to really face and consider that I might never ever see them or be with them again, and that when we all dissolve there will be nothing to bring us back together or reunite us. We have to come to terms with that first and still love. Only after we've dealt with that can we receive the suprise gift from the universe that death is actually the ultimate reunion, from all that life spent being separate. At least for an infinitely long moment before an event horizon beyond which no one has gone before-- but whatever it is, we walk through the door all together. 

7/23 Relfecting on the need to make all the aspects of this concrete and less hazy; people need to be able to buy what's happening, and follow me where I go. THe main fuzzy thing is trying to figure out the best way to actually insert this new theory of what death is. I want to somehow demonstrate that death is actually a convergence, an objective event experienced subjectively across all time. While everyone experiences the moment of death subjectively, in actuality it is a singular event where all matter and energy in the universe converges together. WHen we die, everything goes with us, every other living thing that has ever lived and died. Now, I can just make that be the case, and drop any kind of pseudo-science that feels forced. She does her research, but everything leads her to believe in the non-specialness of human life, of a universe that will expand forever until everything falls apart from everything else, until entropy takes over and universe falls into a quiet silence. It would be easier to just have a story with no attempt at scientifically rationalizing the actual event as it happens. That way I don't have to shoe horn a whole side-plot of scientific research that shows that. It is fun to maybe try to imaigne what kind of conditions would be required for scientists to at least entertain such a conclusion? 

My idea involves treating spacetime as the skin of an apple, and while we experience it linearly,  the completed apple is all there. In this way, our experience of time and the changes of th euniverse-- it'd be somehow explaining that most of the universe is dark matter and energy, and it's pushing everything further apart, and we're not sure what will happen because of it. but it's defeating the big crunch theory. 

She works at Brookhaven, specifically on the problem of dark energy which is driving everything in the universe away from itself at an accelerating rate. 

A few things hand in hand here: we don't know what happened before the big bang, we don't know what most of the universe is composed of, we don't know what happens inside black holes, and these are all interrelated. It depends how much I want or need to get into this for the story to function. Probably, it could function simply as the story of an older scientist who meets someone adn starts to fall in love but resists, because he view of the world and her experience losing loved ones has made her of the view that meeting people is just the sad story of losing them forever, and the journey of this late-in life love, and learning to lean into it, embrace it even in the face of that sad and very real possibility, let it be a focus on the relationship and the grief. The science is less important than the human experience of it, and it doesnt stop me from getting to Joelle's death event and letting it be this scientific convergence theory. 



GRavity brings things together, represents conneciton, groundedness, conneciton, togetherness. Dark energy threatens that sense of conneciton by showing gravity may not be the most poewrful force in the universe.

The actual science is way too much to try and tackle in this story, but what I've read gives me enough wiggle room that I could posit Joelle coming up with her crazy apple analogy.  especially if we're tying to be close to home its more of her own desire for a certain thing to true. That's something to figure out. Again, if this story is home close to me, then there's a story about someone wishing somethign might be the case, fighting for some version of death that would be comforting, and not getting it. 

Joelle was drawn to cosmology because her greif drew her to truth, to big questions, and answering them in concrete ways.  Her life has been defined, as everyone's has, by people entering and leaving, and particularly important people. Which is why she lets herself get lost in this research into dark energy. And she's trapped by this feeling that the universe will just expand  and everything will fall away from each other.  SO it's a scientist who meets a younger woman, a school teacher, and they fall into a romance, punctuated by the fact that Joelle is scared to care for another person that she's going to lose. Because we have to accept that--you have to accept that. mayeb it's not such a a hard concept for some, but you Ethan need to deal with that you have your time with people, and then you will both be gone forever. And that's what would make most people say, " yes I'm going to hold onto you for dear life and hold on to all of it as long as I can."

And Joelle is at a point where she prefers to be alone, because she's lots so many people that mattered so much to her, just over and over again. Her mother when she was 17, her best friend when she's in her 20's, her husband in her 30's, and so now in her 40's she meets this younger woman who wants to engage her in a romance. ANd they do it. And I picture the final scene of Joelle on her deathbed, and experiencing this convergence, time going faster and faster, the perceptual experience. It's going to be more about about the person, her griefs, the people she's lost, sharing that loss with someone new, and what it means to hold onto and connect and love people knowing that they're going to be separated. I just want there to be a clue and a reason for all this science and astrophysics stuff. But maybe that's  as far as I can brainstorm about it at this point, and I just have to jump into trying. But I need to know enough of the story without going too deep. An astro-physicist, maybe with a recent cancer diagnosis, spends all her time collecting data and looking at big pictures of the universe and thinking about how to explain the fact that the universe is accellerating away and apart from everything. Why this creates a coldness in her, a fear of falling in love again, or letting herself be loved, even when someone insists on loving her, even though she'll soon be gone and in decline. How the research continues. 



