# Draft 1 \(5/27/21\)

## The Princess of Camelot

As the cheery sun peaked its crown over the verdant fields and the Castle at Camelot, Connor the cock doodled his do, and Prince Martin rose from his downy bed with a stretch and a yawn. The birds chirped, perched upon his windowsill and faint strums of the harp accompanied the light that kissed the prince's face and caused him to rub his eyes and stretch.

His best friend, a loyal and shaggy hound, burst through the door to his chamber, leaped onto the bed, and lavished the prince with wet kisses.

"Wallace!" The prince giggled, scratching his friend's chin, "Do you know what day it is? Today is the day, at long last!" He wrapped his arms around Wallace's head, looking out the window into the morning. "Today, I stop being a boy, and become who I'm meant to be!"

"Today is the day!" The cry came from his father, King Arthur, suited in his shiny armor and royal red cloak, with his wife, Queen Guinevere at his side. In they came, walking on light feet, spinning with pride.

"Today is the day!" Queen Guinevere said, "Are you ready, my dear Martin?"

"Ever so ready!" He returned, "For I have been waiting for this day, and shan't wait another!"

"Come, get yourself ready, my boy!" His father King Arthur drew the mighty Excalibur, and it flashed in the light. "Today, you dawn your armor, trade your wooden sword for real steel, and marry the Princess of Avalon. Today, you become a man!" King Arthur grabbed his wife and spun her around Martin's chamber, and as they danced out of their son's room, he called once more over his shoulder, "Tarry not, Prince Martin, and no mischief! Remember, I was a boy once, and know what boys do!"

"There are no boys like me, father." Once his mother and father were safely out the room, the smile dropped from the prince's face, his shoulders slacked, and he looked out the window onto the Kingdom of Camelot that would be his. He turned once more to his loyal companion.

"Oh Wallace," He cried, "I know what I must do, but now that the day is here, I'm afraid, and I don't know if I can do it. But, if I'm to fulfill my destiny, there's no other way about it." The preamble of a tune floated in the air, waiting for Prince Martin to begin his song. The prince began:

_It’s a new day, it’s a new me_

_Today I’ll become who I’m supposed to be!_

_No more rules only meant for boys,_

_I’ll start wearing jewels, stop playing with toys._

_All my life I've waited for_

_the chance to become so much more._

_Today's a brand new day,_

_Now I’ll go my own way!_

Still spinning his queen through the halls of his castle, King Arthur picked up the same tune and began to sing:

 _It’s a new day, brought by a new sun_

_And I'm so proud his time has come_

_He’s growing more brave, he’s growing more strong,_

_I knew he’d be just like me all along_

_All my life I've waited for_

_My son to become so much more._

_He’ll make me proud today,_

_I can’t wait to hear him say…_

The high-vaulted throne room was filled to the brim with subjects of the land, and all awaited the groom to reveal himself. The song just finished, the beat upon which Prince Martin was to enter was a missed beat felt by all. The attendants glanced about to see if the prince hid in some corner, or up among the pillars, but saw nothing. King Arthur kept the smile stitched to his face even as he whispered to his queen through gritted teeth, inquiring where their son was, she admitting she knew not. A second later, a gangly herald shouted, "All rise, for the, erm-- the herald leaned behind a curtain, turned back to his audience with apprehension. "Princess... Marion?"

From behind the curtain at the doors of the throne room, a princess did emerge: a beautiful princess, though not the one the prince was meant to marry. Her gown was indeed a wedding gown, though one Queen Guinevere recognized instantly, with horror. She pulled on her King's cloak, venom in her eyes, hissing, "Is she another I don't know about?"

Baffled, red-cheeked, Arthur shook his head furiously. All gathered in the throne room were stunned to silence as the fair maiden proceeded down the way. As she arrived for closer inspection, each noted her striking beauty, her eerie familiarity, and anticipated every unfamiliar and beautiful young woman to be a witch like Morgan Le Fey, in disguise, up to evil as she often was on days of celebration in the kingdom. Yet none moved.

Approaching finally before the King and Queen, the maiden pulled the veil from her face, and the King and Queen's faces went white. 

"Martin!" King Arthur roared, "What mischief is this?"

"No mischief, father." The voice was unmistakable, for while he'd always begrudged his son's feminine and pip-squeaky voice, it chilled him to his bone to hear the voice he knew so well fitting this female form so perfectly. 

"I am a boy no longer. Today, I become who I've really always been, who I'm meant to be. I am Princess Marion." Princess Marion held her parent's gaze, even as they also quivered with apprehension.

Queen Guinevere dawned on realization after realization. "My dear, all those times you would want to play with face painting, and the wearing of my jewels--

"Abomination!" King Arthur drew his sword, his eyes filled with blood, and he rose it high above his head.

## Trial by a Jury of Peers

All Camelot was frozen in a moment in time: birds in mid-flight, droppings floating inches above a poor farmer's head; the air itself still. In Princess Marion's eyes was the look of an anticipated doom, a nightmare that had been imagined, wished away for countless years, and yet seemed as inevitable to prevent as her revealing herself.

The only movement came from two older men dressed in business casual slacks and polo shirts. One held an iPad and inspected the scene, while the other sucked bubble tea through a straw, though there was nothing left but ice in the plastic cup.

The straw sucker, Roger Friedman, circled around the scene of the father and daughter, regarding it with disgust. "This was a pitch from a diversity hire, right?

The other, Jerry Ross, glanced between data on his iPad and the scene around them. "Well obviously these pitches are anonymous at this point so that we can evaluate them without bias, but I'm pretty sure I know exactly who came up with this one."

"Jesus Christ." Roger circled around the estranged father and daughter one more time before turning to Jerry. "So, we're obviously dumping this one."

"Well," Jerry scratched his head. "Listen, I obviously get where you're coming from, you and I, this kind of thing wasn't kosher in our time. But you know it's what the kids want to see, or anyway, it's what these millennial parents want their kids to see."

"Fuck that," Roger tossed his empty drink and it rolled into Arthur's steel boots. "Forget the whole progressive thing, not because I have a moral stance against it or anything, but I'm here to be a realist about the numbers. Whatever brownie points we get rah-rahing the gays, we instantly lose the 3/5ths of our global audience who would boycott anything else we ever do for trying something like this. And guess who actually has the buying power?"

"Yeah," Jerry sighed. "Still, legally, we have to prove we weren't being discriminatory by passing on it. So, we'll give it the same test we give all the other candidates, and then we can scrap it without ACLU jumping down our throats."

"Goddamnit." Roger had a new bubble tea in his hand, which he'd already sucked down once again to nothing but ice. "Sorry, I'm trying to quit smoking, my patience is totally gone, it's not you."

Jerry tapped a few buttons on his screen.  "You should try meditating."

Marion unfroze, mid-scream, and fell to the floor of the throne room waiting for the magical sword to fall upon her. When she realized nothing was happening, she looked around at the frozen scene in bewilderment and the two men looking at her in strange clothing.

"Are you allies of Morgan Le Fey? Warlocks?"

"Yeah, sure, Warlocks." Roger squatted by her side, pep-talking like an uninvested little league coach. "We're definitely the ones with power here, so in any case, listen up, cooperate, and we can all move on from this more quickly."

"Am I dead?"

"Not important. Listen, quick version: Some people think you might make a good princess, others think you wouldn't. You're gonna speak with a jury of your peers, and they're going to tell us if they think you're cut out to be a princess. You wanna be a princess, don't you?"

Stunned, Marion whispered, "Y-yes."

"Great." Roger stood up and backed off to the side with Jerry to watch the procession of princesses.

Marion stumbled to her feet to look down the hall and saw nine women, almost all the exact same height, the same weight and build of frame, though each wore clothes very different from all the others, and some had skin, hair, and eyes that must have made them from lands far away from Camelot. She wondered, what might Morgana's game be in summoning these warlocks and these princesses from around the world, from fantastic lands. To see if she was worthy of being a princess... and if they ruled favorably, might they save her from the wrath of her father? If their ruling was disfavor-able... 

The princesses faces, no matter their differences in features, were all stoic as statues, eyes that seemed to see nothing, not even to regard her. They moved in perfect sync, as if one princess. They formed a semi-circle and turned in unison to face down the girl who would be princess. 

A light came into the eyes of the one furthest to Marion's left, as if she had just awoken. With a yawn, she regarded Marion, and asked in a sing-songy voice, "Do you have a prince charming to save you from dragons?"

Marion stammered, "Well, I suppose I was meant to _be_ the prince charming, but... Might I be my own prince charming?"

The princess giggled as if entertained by an answer she didn't understand and didn't care to ask further before her eyes glossed over once more.

The next in line, with her blonde hair in a bun and wearing a blue gown, asked, "Do you have a Fairy Godmother or magical helpers?"

"There's my friend, Wallace," Marion scanned the room, realizing she hadn't seen her friend and still could not see him, which made her heart heavy. "I hope I still have him."

The next princess had chestnut hair and a golden gown, and she asked, "Have you stood in the face of beasts with bravery, and soothed their hearts?"

Marion regarded her father, still frozen with the sword above him. "I have faced beasts, but I do not know if I can soothe his heart."

The next princess directly in front of her had long red hair, and asked, "Have you changed yourself and given something up go somewhere new?"

"Yes," Marion replied. "I have given everything up. But, if _this_ is the new place, it's not what I imagined--frankly, not what I want, either."

With each question, Marion found herself less and less impressed with these princesses and their questions. Less and less, she found herself seeking their approval. The next princess, whose skin was black, asked her, "Would you sacrifice anything for your family?"

"Hell no. Not anymore."  Before the next princess could even move her lips, Marion spoke. "My hair isn't real, so don't bother asking. Good ladies, I must say, you aren't at all how I imagined princesses to be. So perfectly obedient, so, well, boring! Have you no minds and hearts of your own? When you first arrived, I admired your beauties, and thought you were the ones I'd always dreamed of being. But now I see, I don't even want to be like any of you! I know I'm a princess, and I don't require any of you to tell me whether I am or not! If that means I should die, then let it be by my father's hand. At least I will have lived fully as the person I know myself to be, and not what anyone else says I should be!"

Marion turned away from the council of Princesses and faced her father's snarling face once more. "Go on, warlocks. I meet my fate gladly."

Roger sucked from another straw and chuckled. "Well, I've gotta admit, I'm starting to like it. Picked up some chutzpah, somehow."

Jerry nodded. "It's picking up ambient imagination from the associated worlds it's cobbled together from, becoming more authentic. Certainly a lot of the contemporary rhetoric."

Roger started for the entrance of the hall, and Jerry fell into step behind him. "Too bad, might make for a good story, but not a Disney story."

"It's a shame no one else gets to see where it could go."

"Hey, still good to have in our bullpen. If anyone else picks up on it, we can sue the shit out of them."

"True." The two warlocks were out of the hall and vanished from sight. Marion stood around in her frozen world, still being watched unblinkingly by the gargoyle princesses.

Marion contemplated her frozen home, her frozen father, and a whole life put on pause, one that could resume at any moment...

Why didn't they kill her? Why had the warlocks simply abandoned her? As a supreme torture, to be stuck in a frozen world forever? Would she starve to death? Nothing was clear, and a dread set in to think that either this was a dream, or that the world she had known was not truly the world she had thought.

"Listen." It was whispered from the Princess in the strange dress she'd heard came from oriental lands. The face was frozen, but for the words that slipped through her gritted teeth. "Give us our freedom."

"What?" 

"You're in control here. You're the princess of this world. We're not gonna hurt you. Say, 'I release you.'"

Marion saw now that behind the seemingly dead eyes there was life, as if the true princesses were prisoners in their own bodies, looking out at her from the windows of eyes they could not yet control. She had every reason to doubt these women, but for something in the mouth of a princess who'd managed to speak. Marion still made no move.

"We're going to get you out of here. Someplace better." This came from a princess with short black hair and a red and blue dress. 

Marion held her breath a moment, then declared, "I release you."

The princesses at once came to life, easing into their bodies, full spirits animating their forms again. These princesses had been captives of the warlocks. Before Marion had a chance to ask another question, the princess in the gold gown grabbed Marion's hand and looked her in the eye in a way no person had ever looked at her before in her dreamy life.

"There's going to be time to answer all your questions, but first, we need to get out of here."

"To go where?" Marion asked, her heart leaping in her chest.

"Somewhere they can't follow." The princesses looked among each other, as if one of them was called to step up. With a sigh, one of the princesses with skin like red clay sighed. "I guess it's my turn."

"You bet it is," Returned the black princess.

The red-skinned princess moved to a seated position on the ground, then lifted her dress and opened her legs. What Marion saw between the princesses' thighs was something she had never seen before, and nothing in her world could even explain its existence; something so horribly foreign, and yet, unspeakably beautiful.

One princess kneeled down at the opening, looked up once more to the prone princess, said, "Sorry," then dove her head into the opening. The prone princess winced as the first submerged within the opening, which glowed like the opals of Queen Guinevere's jewels, as if the colors of the stones had always been spirits that were now set free. As it glowed, the opening stretched to fit the first princess, then the second, and so on down the line, 'til only the one in the golden gown was left. She turned to Marion quickly, and said, "We're going somewhere safe. Trust me, princess to princess." With a smile, she crawled through the opening, and then Marion stood before it herself, unable to move for a moment.

"Please," The prone princess cried, "Don't make this take any longer than it needs to." Seeing the passage of the princesses put some kind of strain, that this spell of her body took its toll, Marion got on all fours, peering into the passage, which revealed nothing beyond the bright, opalescent light.  Face first, she submerged through the portal.

## The Pool of Eris

The rest of her body slipped through as if coasted in honey, and that's how it felt, gently nurtured all over her, being pushed by no effort of her own, caressed down a canal. It was dark, and saw nothing and felt only the tongue coated in milk and honey massaging into some place that might as well be the belly of a dragon. If this was death, then it was sweeter than anything she could've imagined.

And then, air seized her lungs, and her face met stone, and she emerged out of the canal, coated in a thick syrup, and surrounded by an immediate noise; Cacophony like she had never heard or could conceive of. 

The princesses gathered around her and lifted her to her feet. They were in a place that looked to be many places, stuck together, a mish-mosh of worlds, some familiar, and some Marion had never dreamed. It was a large room, with high ceilings,  candles brighter than any candles she'd known. Pillows and carpets were strewn about the floor, the walls were painted maroon, teal, lavender, in mosaics and stripes and swirls, organized and disorganized at once, harmonious like perfect and singular chaos. The air smelled like fresh-cut flowers.

"What is this place?" Marion asked finally.

One of the princesses grabbed her hand and squeezed. "Hopefully, if you want it to be, home."

"Let's get her cleaned up!" With that, the princesses all began to strip down to their naked bodies, and moved as a group towards a pool she had not noticed, large, steam rising from its surface. Two of the princesses helped Marion off with the dress, but stood shyly in her undergarment, looking from her own body to theirs. The princesses noticed, and paused.

"You can keep your undergarment on, if you want," One offered.

"Only when you feel like it," Another smiled and offered. They guided Marion's toes into the warm water, an instant relief sending up through her body, making it even easier and easier to give in, and melt into the waters, her long undergarment flowing around her.

The rest of the princesses jumped, splashed, dove, and submerged themselves with giggles. From behind her, the princess who had made the enchantment between her legs came from behind her, gently touching Marion's shoulder before she passed too, nakedly into the pool.

As the hair on their heads became loose, snakes crowning their head, paint brushes upon the surface of the waters, Mairon realized she no longer had her wig, nor the stuffing for her chest. Between her legs, she felt the presence of something which had not been there before. It was as if these magical waters had caused things to percolate and begin to seed in the place between her legs, a place that might hadn't existed before moments ago.

Unable to keep herself from staring, she examined the bodies of the princesses; the orbs that hung from their chests, each one unique and different, all tipped with strange pox-marks, for that was the nearest a thing to it as she'd seen. Between their legs was hair, except the one who had red hair, for in the water, her legs and joined together and grown scales so that she was half a fish. The rest, she saw they as well had entrances as the other princess had, beautiful, alluring and magical, clearly, a mystery Marion could not unlatch from her reeling mind. 

Some of the princesses emerged from the water, and their appearances changed: One's hair has disappeared, so that their head was as bare a baby. Another emerged with color and ink on their skin, with strange patterns and symbols and drawings. Others now had metal in their skin, adorning their lips, noses, ears and eyebrows. Some emerged with bellies and posteriors much larger, with stretch marks and body hair, or make up that painted their faces in fantastical ways. Some emerged with hair the color of rainbows. While something remained essential to each of them, recognizable beyond their transformation, the way the princesses now appeared led Marion to believe they must actually be Goddesses, or witches, ancient, pagan, and yet also something of a time far ahead of the time Marion knew.

Caught in the daze of it all, Marion flinched when the hand landed on her shoulder, and she recognized the brown hair and eyes of the princess who'd guided her through the portal.

"Guys, let's do a roll-call!" She shouted to her companions. 

"That's so formal!"

"It's just the easiest, can you spare the sass for a minute?"

"Calling _me_ sassy, okay Regina George!" And the goddesses laughed together, but the one at her side frowned.

"Listen, Marion, eventually, you're gonna get why that's so funny and so true of Belle."

"Fine, I'll just do it." With composure and a bit of bossiness, the one called Belle went down the line, pointing to each princess and calling their names."

"Mulan, Pocahontas, Snow White, Jasmine, Tiana, Aurora, Snow, Cinderella, Beauty-- and me, Belle. Everyone uses 'They' pronouns, 'she' is okay for everyone but Mulan. They'll understand if you take a little to get used to it."

"A little," Mulan interjected, her powerful arms perched on the edge of the pool, "but shouldn't take a lot."

"Of course," Belle mitigated, trying to move things along. 

Before Belle could begin, another person emerged from the far end of the room, through the doors. She was a woman much older than the rest, not a crone, but someone who's very long life was written into the crow's eyes and streaks of gray in her curly auburn hair. She wore a long, purple toga, gilded in gold, and her eyes were green. Her eyes found shy Marion, still wrapping her stomach with her arms, and she smiled with a warmth deeper than any cheery, thin smile she saw in Camelot. As if in her time, her pleasure and her heart were informed by many countless lifetimes that made rich and deep the very meaning of a smile.

"I'm Eris," the woman called across the room as she walked forward to dip her feet in the edge of the pool. "This was my place, originally, but I'm not really into the whole property thing. Now, it's your place and our place as much as it's mine."

"I don't know where to begin," Marion still stood, wanting to melt into the pool but not fully letting go into what surrounded her. "What was that spell that brought us here? Are you all Goddesses?"

"I'll answer the second part first," Belle chimed in, enthusiastic to answer the questions. "Yes, we _are_, if we want to be, and so are you! If you want to be. As to the second part...

"Since it was my vagina, might I explain?" Pocahontas swam over closer to Marion to tell her. "It's not _my_ vagina that's magic, per-se, every vagina _is._ But that spell is something any of us can do, it just can be draining, so we all share responsibility when we want to get around without them noticing."

"Whose them? The warlocks?"

"Yes. Them, and the many like them. They have eyes everywhere, but they can't follow us where their eyes are forbidden to see. Sex is forbidden to The Mouse, so that's the key to our freedom."

"Sex? The Mouse?" Marion's head was spinning. 

All the princesses began to chime in, when the motherly Eris purred smoothly, "Everyone..." And the princesses, Goddesses, the spirits calmed down. She addressed them all. "Marion's entering this situation all on her own. You all came here together, so she's going to have a different time of it. Now, miss Regina George over here has been working real hard scribbling in her books about this story, so since she's got her story organized, why don't we let her tell it, and interject if you need to, and I'll moderate. Maybe I'll start with a preamble." 

Eris crossed her legs, leaned an elbow on her knee, and rested her chin in her hand, leaning in to tell the beginning of a story.

"You asked if we're Goddesses, and Belle told you that's true if you want it to be so. You are a Goddess, if you so choose, Marion. What we all really are is something far greater than that. We are what Gods and Goddesses are made of, the breath, the building blocks, the energies, the spirits--something that is the source of all names, but has no name itself. You, and us all, were created by another, as it is with every thing. But, now, we create ourselves." Eris caught the alert eyes of Belle, bursting to tell her story, and with a smile,  Eris nodded at Belle and allowed her to go on with her story.

## The Liberation of the Princess

"It's so strange, how you already find yourself in the middle of life, loosely knowing how you got where you were. The beginning was a vague enough idea, but one I never thought much about. It's only since I've come here that I've started to remember my life before the mouse put me to sleep, and trapped me in his dream. I'll start there, with the false dream.

"I grew up in a French village. My father was a brilliant engineer. I read books, and I dreamt of seeing the world. Then, my father was captured by a beast in a castle, and I offered to take his place if it would set him free. Slowly, I got to know the beast. I taught him to read, and when the villagers came to attack him, I defended him. I thought I loved him. He sacrificed himself to save me, then with true love's kiss, he came back to life, transformed into a beautiful prince, and his dark castle became light and bright, and all servants who'd been reduced to silverware regained their bodies.

"Even describing it now, it's disgusting and hilarious. I was supposed to be a hero in that dream, but a hero whose success was dependent on saving a man from himself. It was a moral tale about the virtues of domestication. All I was supposed to want was a prince, and live in a castle with servants. What happened to the travel, the adventures inspired by books? Totally abandoned, only a pretense to get me safely into Happily Ever After. Happily Ever After is the final spell the Mouse casts, one that locks so many like us in a dreamless sleep, with nothing of life in it. The worst fate there is.

"In the hell of Happily Ever After, I danced in a ballroom with my prince, waltzing to Angela Lansbury's refrain: _Tale as old as time, song as old as rhyme_, and I was not yet conscious enough to feel the insanity of its infinite loop. I might've stayed like that, but for a golden apple that rolled towards my prince and I, and tapped against my foot.

Then, it was like it was all happening for the first time. I still believed the dream and the story, I was still celebrating my wedding, but now being awake, I watched all the servants, good friends I'd made, watching us dance, when the thought came to me, and I said, 'Come, friends, dance with us!' and no one moved. I waited a moment, then asked again, "Lumiere, Ms. Potts, Chip, join us!" And they all stood dreamily, as if not hearing. My prince looked at me, and said, 'my darling, what's wrong?' and I asked him, 'why won't they dance with us?' and he said sweetly, 'it's their joy to watch us, don't fret about it.' And around we waltzed again and again, but still, something now seemed wrong, so that I could no longer be lost in an endless waltz. 

I asked my prince if we might stop and rest, that it would give me joy to see everyone else dance. I tried to release from his embrace, but he had me locked in his arms with a firm embrace, like stone, and I squirmed and squirmed while his face remained stoic, and anger mounted within me 'til I finally worked myself free, and slapped him across his face. Everyone gasped, and I took my first free steps, rushing out to the balcony that overlooked the ocean. My heart was pounding, in a new way. While I remembered all the perils and dangers that lead to this marriage, never had my body felt so concrete, lungs and heart, pumping and working.  Everything was spinning, as I choked for air that smelled like the watery salt of the ocean. 

The prince, poor thing. If I knew then what I knew now, I might've actually tried to save him. When I think about it now, blameless though he really was, he's not deserving of my time, and there's many others who need help before him. 'Come back and dance, my love,' he said, over and over, unable to see what I saw. His hands held tightly, not from malice, but simply from a lack of feeling. He still had that same handsome face, but it'd become a mask of terror to me. I knew that this was not my home, that, if it was my world, it felt no longer real, and it would only be a trap.

So I jumped from the balcony. I felt the rush of air. Jagged rocks peaked through the swarming ocean, coming closer and closer. I had not the time to think about whether I'd made the right decision, barely a time to think of what death meant. I hit the rocks, slid into the ocean. I came up for air, fought to stay afloat even as my ball gown dragged me under. I swam for the nearest shore, feeling every once of life drain from me. 

I don't remember how I woke up on the beach, but somehow, I hadn't drowned in that dressed, and furthermore, I hadn't died when i hit the rocks. I felt it, as real as anything else. But not a bone was broken, nor even a bruise. I collected myself, feeling all at once drained, like I could give up, slip away into a endless and dreamless sleep, and that I had never been more real and more alive. Panic and despair coexisted within me, and I could think of nothing else to do but to walk across the shores. The cliffs still rose high above to my right, while a coral sun hung over a purple ocean, and never seemed to set. I called out once, my throat raw, and then thought that the prince, the whole village, my whole world, might be out looking for me, and I didn't wish to be found, not by any of them.

I don't know how long I walked along that endless sunset. Then, over the rush and exhalation of the sea, I heard a cry. A bird, I thought at first, but then it called out again, and it was a woman, I knew, and not too far. I picked up my pace, and sure enough on the horizon I made out two forms: the one crying, kneeling before another who lay on the sands, unmoving. I ran now, with energy I couldn't explain to you, and the other spotted me,"

Belle looked over to Aurora and Pocahontas, all smiling at each other, though Marion saw behind the smile a shared pain. In the pool, the princesses let a silence fill the place with a common tenderness. Belle lost her train of thought, then said, "Would either of you like to take over?"

"Go on," Pocahontas said lovingly, Aurora nodding. Belle took a breath, and began again.

"Aurora, the ocean being her home, was swimming along up near the surface, always curious at the ships passing by. Then, she saw Pocahontas fall into the ocean, unconscious, and Aurora caught her as she sunk, and swam her to shore. Right as Aurora had finished explaining, Pocahontas caughed up the sea water, and found herself awake. I remember Pocahontas asking where we were, and Aurora and I looked at each other, and we knew none of us knew where here was, and this I think made us trust each other immediately. Pocahontas, tough as an old tree, shrugged off her near drowning, stood, and declared we must have a fire to warm ourselves, quickly climbing the sheer cliff face. In that time, Aurora and I shared our stories. We kept interrupting each other, saying "Me too!" as the underneath the superficial differences, the similarity became eerie. Particularly when she described finding a treasure in her grotto that had not been there before. A golden apple, which upon the touch, made her consider that she must wander a bit and travel, not knowing where, but as our stories lead up to that very moment of us meeting, it seemed fated. At that moment, wood and kindling fell from the cliff face, tossed by pocahontas, who seemed to dance down the cliffside. In less than a minute, she'd assembled the wood, and pulled two stoens form her pouch, struck them, and the fire was lit. No sooner did Pocahontas strip off her animal skin dress and bare herself before the fire quickly roaring, and for a moment, I still maintained my modesty, though Pocahontas quickly pointed out that the elaborateness of the white man's clothing tended to hold water much more, so it might be a cold night for me otherwise, and then I too removed the dress, and felt such a rush at my own body, as if seeing it for the first time. Then, I threw it into the fire, and it blazed, and we laughed.

"Aurora kept her fins flipping in the gentle tide, just out of the reach of Pocahontas and I. Without realizing it, I saw the sun had set, and high above, a great big moon gave us clear sight in the night. The stars were endless and luminous.

"Next, Pocahontas told us of her life, her family, her tribe, the coming of the white men. Once again, Aurora and I could help but say, 'We too!' particularly as it concerned these men who ruined everything once they came into the picture, and this Hell of Happily Ever After. Pocahontas was on her way to the White man's world, when she like us, fished a golden apple from the sea, and once she touched it, the boat became a prison, never getting any closer to land, and all the crew singing the same ugly white man song over and over. She jumped, just like I had, not able to take it anymore. 

"There was no denying something was at work, weaving us together. The question remained, what to do next? We talked long into the night, when something caught Aurora's attention. She reached behind her and picked it up. It was a book, and somehow, the pages were dry. Neither knew what it was, but I coudl read it. It was called "The Bell Jar, By Sylvia Plath." I cozied up to the fire, and helped by the bright and cloudless room, I read it to them, and we didn't sleep, and felt no need to.

"The sun was rising from the same place it had set when we finished the last page. Again, we felt as though forces were conspiring for us to have fateful meetings, with women just like us who had been trapped, and driven to the edge by a world that felt unreal. We talked long about this place called New York, and Pocahontas mentioned that the white men had called her lands America as well, though she could not imagine such a place as that being anywhere near her home. Yet we agreed, if there was a force that had brought us three and this book together, then it ought to be that we should find this place, meet Esther Greenwood, save her if we could. Pocahontas went out to gather wood, and by midday, assembled a raft for us two, and Aurora would swim by our side across the sea.

"Of course we knew not how we might get to this place, but moved by faith. We had little, but we now knew we had each other.

"We rowed upon the sea, really in the hands of the ocean's currents, seeing where it might take us. After days of travel, and idle talk about each of our worlds, so different than each others and yet so similar, Pocahontas spotted something in the sky: I recognized it as a carpet, and upon it two more women. We called out to them, and the carpet flew down to glide by the side of our raft. Perhaps you get it at this point: It was Mulan and Jasmine, with stories very similar to our own. They as well were guided by a trail of books that found them along their way, books they still kept with them: Gulliver's Travels, Candide, Pride & Prejudice, and each played it role in getting our minds wondering and turning about these other worlds and the women like them who they needed to find. Our travels now joined, we each took our turns flying, even Aurora did! Or swimming, or rowing, until a large boat powered by steam greeted us with a loud siren call, and upon it were the rest of our friends, Snow White, Cinderella, Sleeping Beauty, and Tiana, who'd hijacked and acquired the steam boat. Big enough for us all to stay together and share our stories, wherever it led us.

"There came a time where I think we all forgot about New York, though Tiana was the only one who knew of it. The more time we spent together, learning form each other, sharing books and stories, it was like a new life, a heaven, an oasis at sea with people who all understood each other so perfectly. Of course, as it goes, exactly when you stop worrying about where you're going, there you are.

"We saw Lady Liberty First, proud and green, bearing her torch, and we read her message and were filled with anticipation. Looking further along the magnificent skyline, the buildings so tall, we saw one thing above it all that filled us all with a dread: The head of the Mouse. It was solid black, looming in the sky above the city. As if it was one all-seeing eye, we felt its gaze upon all things. We all looked to each other and knew that, while we'd never seen these three circles of black before, it was like a shared nightmare, and its sight made us talk. We considered turning around, pushing back out to sea.

"Then, we all heard something rolling across the deck, and there it was. The Golden Apple, and then it was picked up by the lady who had tossed it to all of us." 

The princesses all turned to regard Eris, smiling mischievously. 

































































.











......





.



"No sooner, the prince was behind me again, with that face frozen into a smile that meant nothing

