# Preamble part.

* To first Identify the issue: The relationship between the Boomer and Millennial generation has been frought. We are seeking to understand the behavior, manifested through culture and politics, of the Millennial generation. 
* Can I say this as straightfowardly as possible? I've been trying to make sense of what's happening with my generation, and a few of the dominant strains that have emerged in contemporary culture: Things like Political Correctness, Cancel Culture, Social Justice, Identity Politics, progressivism and political radicalism, disillusionment with practically all institutionss, all of these emergent trends and new things that dominate contemporary society and are attributed to Millenials. What is it that links all these phenomena together?
* In order to understand it, I found myself mainly reviewing the interdisciplinary work of Joseph Campbell. In Joseph Campbell's work, Myth functions often to assimilate youth into the structures and rules of the society they belong to, methods of proper integration. All traditions can be understood as tools of this function. It is through these practices and rituals and myths that societies safe-gaurded against falling apart and survived. Of course, not to be said that things didn't change and societies changed, but there is almost always a conservative force warning against this breakign of tradition, this falling away and forgetting of the old way, as a path that leads towards destruction. And it's not hard to make the argument that despite supposed progress in all modes of industry, technology and science, humanity seems closest to a mututal doom than ever before. 
* I think there's a simple story to be told to understand what's been the experience of millenials, and most likely every generation, though each goes through its own unique iteration.
* THe Millennial experience in childhood was during the boom time of America: We'd won the cold war, the economy was thriving, we were not embroiled in any wars. It was a time of relative peace for Young american children in the 90's. Then September 11 came.
* Ok, I don't need all the specifics, or rather not here, but there's a way to be concise about it. It's about the fact that we spend the early part of our lives in a world that is given to us on the authority of our parents, and we are raised on the stories of greatness of those that came before us. We spend our lives striving to live up to the glorious image of our forebears and ancestors. Perhaps its been the unique experience of our generation to find out through an abundance of information that the cheery and sunny story we were given was a lie: Our ancestors were brutal and savage, and they did horrid things, and the whole history of humanity is riddled with moral outrage and darkness and depravity and evil. And we reject it. We rebel against it, and swear not to become the monsters that raised us, we will do better, we say. And, for the most part, we don't. But even before that has happened, we set on a war path to erase the consequences of that dark and terrible history. We don't reconcile with it as much as we try to eliminate it. And here we are, millennials trying to fix the world our parents ruined, and all of the institutions that brought us this far now seem to be weapons to doom us. And we seek a radical transformation where we must destroy our terrible past in order to create a bright future. 
* And the problem remains that our generation is eager to take the reins, but our parents won't give it over because they are being disgraced, judged, annihilated, and do not like the shape this new generation has taken. 
* The millennial find themselves in a position where all of their idols and role models have been disgraced, and they no longer have guidance to navigate an uncertain future. Millennials have sworn to tear down all the inheritence of history, everything that is marked by crime and injustice, but we do not know how to move forward on our own, because we have made ourselves a lonely generation.
* I believe what the millennial generation, what all future generations need to deal with this, is to learn to identify with the ancestors and the predecessors, spiritually. To truly take it in that the evils are the past are no abstractions we bear no responsibility for, but they are _our_ mistakes. Whatever it is to learn that we _are_ our ancestors. We are their dream, their wish, their hope, yes, to do better than they did. And even when our parents try to control us and tell us how we should be and ask us to uphold a tradition that is larger than our own experience, that the venerated authority is not an inaccessible abstraction, it is _you_, us, in our very essence. We are the ancestors, the ones we admire and aspire to, also the ones who were disgraced and filled with evil. The thousand generaitons live in us, and we play out their karma. We have all their gifts, and all their flaws, and their problems are our own problems. The trick is gaining generational consciousness, something institutions are supposed to deliver to us, but have failed to do. 
* And the only suggestion I can make is that we develop a generational consciousness, and to make decisions from that understanding. Because we are not the end of the chain. Our thinking and our actions have to be geared towards seven generations from now, to people we will never meet. 
* And I need to organize all of this. Because this is my thesis, this is what I want to say, and what I must illustrate through Oliver's memoir and the Epic Poem.
* So perhaps what I do at work today is try to more thoroughly organize this, focus on just articulating the Poem

